Almond Chicken
 1 lb skinned chicken breast
 1 cup vegtable oil
 5 slices fresh ginger root
 3 green onions, chopped to about 1" lengths
 1 green pepper, chopped as above
 1/2 cup diced bamboo shoots
 1/3 slivered almonds (a little vegetable oil to fry in)

Marinade:
1/4 tsp salt
1/8 tsp white pepper
1 tsp cornstarch
1 Tbsp soy sauce
1 egg white

Seasoning sauce:
1 Tbsp rice vinegar
2 Tbsp soy sauce
1 Tbsp dry sherry
1/2 tsp salt
1 tsp sugar
1/2 tsp cornstarch

Deep fry slivered almonds in vegtable oil for 2 to 3 minutes to crisp
them up. drain well on paper towel. Let stand for 5 minutes before using.
Dice chicken into 1 inch cubes. Combine marinade ingrediants, add
chicken and mix well. Let stand 1/2 hour. Heat oil in wok, add chicken
and stir fry until browned. Remove chicken and drain well. Stir fry
ginger, onion, pepper and bamboo shoots for about 1 minute until
vegtables are crisp−tender. Combine ingrediants for seasoning sauce in a
small bowl, mix well and add to wok. bring to boil. Add chicken to
boiling sauce. Stir fry chicken until coated with sauce.
Add almonds, mix well.




Almond Chicken                                                              2
Almond Biscuits
 2 1/2 cups all−purpose flour
 2 tsp baking powder
 1/2 cup margarine or butter
 1 cup granulated sugar
 1 egg
 1 tsp almond essence
 blanched almonds for decoration
 beat egg for glazing


 1.Sift the flour, baking powder and salt into a bowl. Cream the margarine
(or butter) and sugar together until light, white and fluffy. Beat in the egg
and almond essence. Stir in the sifted dry ingredients to make a stiff
dough.
 2.Form the mixture into balls about 1 − 1.5 inch diameter and place these
on a greased baking tray. Place half an almond (split lengthways) on
each ball and press to flatten slightly. Brush with beaten egg.
 3.Bake in a moderate oven (350 deg F / 180 deg C) for 20 minutes or
until golden. Cool on a wire rack. This quantity makes about 45
biscuits.




Almond Biscuits                                                                 3
Barbecued Spareribs
 2 banks of spareribs, uncut, about 2 pounds each
 3 cloves garlic, minced
 1/2 cup ketchup
 1/2 cup sweet bean sauce (hoi sin deung) or hoi sin sauce
 1/2 cup soy sauce
 1/4 cup sherry

Trim off excess fat from the thick edges of spareribs. Place ribs
in a shallow pan or platter. Mix remaining ingredients for a
marinade and spread over both sides of the spareribs. Let stand
for at least two hours.
Place one oven rack at the top of the oven and one at the bottom.
Preheat to 375F. Hook each bank of spareribs with 3 or 4 S−hooks
across its width, on the thick edges, and suspend under top rack.
Place a large pan with 1/2" water on bottom rack. This pan will
catch the drippings and keep the meat from drying out. Cook
spareribs for about 45 minutes.




Barbecued Spareribs                                                 4
Bean Curd with Oyster Sauce
8 ounces bean curd
4 ounces fresh mushrooms
6 green onions
3 stalks celery
1 red or green pepper
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
1/2 cup water
1 tablespoon cornstarch
2 tablespoons oyster sauce
4 teaspoons dry sherry
4 teaspoons soy sauce

1. Cut bean curd into 1/2 inch cubes. Clean mushrooms and cut into slices.
Cut onions into 1 inch pieces. Cut celery into 1/2 inch diagonal slices.
Remove seeds from pepper and cut pepper into 1/2 inch chunks.
2. Heat 1 tablespoon of the oil in wok over high heat. Cook bean curd in
the oil, stirring gently, until light brown, 3 minutes. Remove from pan.
3. Heat remaining 1 tablespoon oil in wok over high heat. Add mushrooms,
onions, celery and pepper, Stir fry for 1 minute.
4. Return bean curd to wok. Toss lightly to combine. Blend water, cornstarch,
oyster sauce, sherry and soy sauce. Pour over mixture in wok. Cook and
stir until liquid boils. Cook and stir 1 minute longer.




Bean Curd with Oyster Sauce                                                     5
Bean Sprout Salad
2 tablespoon Sesame seeds
 1 pound Fresh bean sprouts
  thoroughly washed
  and drained
 3 md Garlic cloves
  peeled and minced
 2 md Scallions −− trimmed & minced
 1 1" cube ginger
  peeled and minced
 2 tablespoon Oriental sesame oil
 1/3 cup Soy sauce
 2 tablespoon Cider vinegar
 1 tablespoon Mirin (sweet rice wine)
 2 teaspoon Light brown sugar
 1 teaspoon Spicy sesame oil

Makes 4 to 6 Servings Fresh bean sprouts are a must for this recipe from
China's Hunan province.
The canned variety don't have the requisite crispness. Keep a close eye on
the toasting sesame seeds so they don't burn.

 PREHEAT OVEN TO 300F. Toast the sesame seeds by spreading them over the
bottom of a pie tin. Roast for 12−to−16 minutes, stirring often, until they
are golden. The seeds can be toasted in advance and stored in an airtight
container. Place the bean sprouts in a large heatproof bowl and set it aside.
In a medium−size skillet set over moderately low heat, stir−fry the garlic,
scallions and ginger in the oil for 2 to 3 minutes, until they are limp. Add
all the remaining ingredients, increase the heat to moderate, then boil the
mixture, uncovered, for 1 minute to slightly reduce the liquid. Pour the
boiling dressing over the bean sprouts, toss well, then cover the bowl and
chill the salad for several hours. Toss again before serving.




Bean Sprout Salad                                                               6
Beef with Broccoli
1 tablespoon Cornstarch
3 tablespoons Dry sherry
1/4 cup Water
1/2 cup Oyster sauce
1 pinch Crushed red pepper flakes
1 tablespoon Oil
1 tablespoon Ginger root, minced
1 Garlic clove −− crushed
1 pound Broccoli −− cut up
1 Green pepper −− julienned
2 Celery ribs −− sliced
6 Green onions −− cut in pieces
8 ounces Cooked beef −− sliced

Dissolve cornstarch in sherry, oyster sauce, water, and add red pepper
flakes. In wok or large skillet, heat oil over med high heat, add ginger
and garlic. Stir−fry 1 min. Add broccoli, stir−fry 3 mins. Add green pepper,
celery, and green onions, stir−fry 3 mins. Make a well in wok and add
cornstarch mixture. Stir until thickened. Add meat and gently stir.
Use chicken broth if mixture is too thick. Serve with steamed rice.




Beef with Broccoli                                                             7
Beef Kwangton
1 1/2 tablespoons peanut oil
1 slice fresh ginger root −−1/2" thick
1 pound beef −−in thin strips
4 ounces bamboo shoots −−sliced
4 ounces button mushrooms −−sliced
3 ounces snow peas
1/2 cup chicken broth
2 tablespoons oyster sauce
1/2 teaspoon soy sauce
1/4 teaspoon seasame oil
1/4 teaspoon sugar
1/2 teaspoon cornstarch −−mixed with 1/2 teaspoon water

 Preheat a wok or frying pan and add the oil. Add the ginger and stir to add
flavor to the oil. Discard the ginger and add the beef slices. Stir fry for
about 2 minutes. Add the bamboo shoots, mushrooms, snow peas and chicken
broth. Cover and cook for 2 minutes. Stir in oyster sauce, soy sauce, sesame
oil and sugar. Thicken with the cornstarch blend and serve immediately with
rice.




Beef Kwangton                                                                  8
Bird of Paradise
1 can (20 oz.) sliced pineapple in syrup
2 Whole chicken breasts, split (or 1 cut up 3 lb. fryer)
2 tablespoons Butter
1/4 cup Dry sherry
3 tablespoons Soy sauce
2 large Clove garlic, pressed
2 tablespoons Finely chopped crystallized ginger
1/2 teaspoon Salt
1 Red bell pepper, seeded, chunked
1 1/2 cups Sliced celery
1/2 cup Sliced green onion
1 Papaya, peeled, sliced (optional)
1 tablespoon Cornstarch

 Drain pineapple, reserving syrup. Brown chicken in butter; Drain.

 Combine syrup with sherry, soy sauce, garlic and ginger. Pour over chicken.
 Cover, simmer 30 minutes, turning chicken once. Remove chicken. Add
 pineapple, bell pepper, celery, green onion and papaya to pan. Dissolve
 cornstarch in 1/2 cup water. Stir into pan. Bring to boil. When thickened,
 spoon over chicken.




Bird of Paradise                                                               9
Cantonese Roast Duck
1 duck, about 5 pounds,fresh or frozen
1 tablespoon salt
1 scallion
3 slices fresh ginger

Glaze:
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
2 tablespoons water
1 tablespoon soy sauce
Few sprigs fresh cilantro, for garnish

1. Thaw the duck, if frozen. Remove any excess fat, and rinse and pat dry
 with paper towels. Rub the entire surface of the duck, inside and out,
 with the salt. Cover and refrigerate for several hours, or, overnight.
2. Put the scallion in the cavity and lay the slices of ginger on top of
 the duck. Add at least 2 inches of water to a large flameproof roasting
 pan with a lid and put the pan on the stove. Place a large rack in the
 roasting pan and bring the water to a boil. Choose an oval casserole large
 enough to hold the duck and small enough to fit into the roasting pan.
 Place the duck in the casserole and then put the casserole on the rack.
 Cover and steam for 1 hour, checking the water level from time to time
 and adding more boiling water if necessary. Save the duck broth to use in
 soups or stir fry dishes. When done, remove the duck from the casserole
 and place it on a rack to dry.
3. Combine the ingredients for the glaze in a small saucepan and bring to
 a boil. With a pastry brush, paint the hot glaze over the surface of the
 duck. Allow duck to dry for 1 hour.
4. Preheat the oven to 375F. Roast the duck, breast side down, for 20 minutes.
 Turn over and continue to roast for 40 more minutes.
5. Transfer duck to a chopping board and allow to cool slightly. Using a
 cleaver, disjoint and cut the duck through the bone into bite size pieces.
 Arrange the pieces on a serving platter, garnish with cilantro and serve.




Cantonese Roast Duck                                                             10
Cantonese Meatballs
20 oz. Pineapple Chunks In Syrup
3 tablespoons Packed Brown Sugar
5 tablespoons Teriyaki Sauce, Divided
1 tablespoon Vinegar
1 tablespoon Catsup
1 lb. Ground Beef
2 tablesppons Instant Minced Onion
2 tablespoons Cornstarch
1/4 cup Water


 Drain pineapple; reserve syrup. Combine syrup, brown sugar, 3 tablespoons
teriyaki sauce, vinegar and catsup; set aside. Mix beef with remaining 2
tablespoons teriyaki sauce and onion; shape into 20 meatballs. Brown
meatballs in large skillet; drain off excess fat. Pour syrup mixture over
meatballs; simmer 10 minutes, stirring occasionally. Dissolve cornstarch in
water; stir into skillet with pineapple. Cook and stir until sauce thickens
and pineapple is heated through.




Cantonese Meatballs                                                           11
Cashew Chicken
3 Chicken breasts, boned and skinned
1/2 lb. Chinese pea pods
1/2 lb. Mushrooms
4 Green onions
2 cups Bamboo shoots, drained
1 cup Chicken broth
1/4 cup Soy sauce
2 tb Corn starch
1/2 ts Sugar
1/2 ts Salt
4 tb Salad oil
1 pack Cashew nuts (about 4−oz)

Slice breasts horizontally into very thin slices and cut into inch squares.
Place on tray. Prepare vegetables, removing ends and strings from pea pods,
slicing mushrooms, green part of onions, and the bamboo shoots. Add to tray.
Mix soy sauce, cornstarch, sugar, and salt. Heat 1 tbls of oil in skillet
over moderate heat, add all the nuts, and cook 1 min shaking the pan,
toasting the nuts lightly. Remove and reserve. Pour remaining oil in pan, fry
chicken quickly, turning often until it looks opaque. Lower heat to low. Add
pea pods, mushrooms, and broth. Cover and cook slowly for 2 mins. Remove
cover, add soy sauce mixture, bamboo shoots, and cook until thickened,
stirring constantly. Simmer uncovered a bit more and add green onions and
nuts and serve immediately.




Cashew Chicken                                                                  12
Chinese Fire Pot
1 lb Boneless beef sirloin, or beef round
1 lb Boned chicken breasts
1 lb Fish fillets
1 lb Medium shrimp
1 lb Chinese cabbage
1/2 lb Fresh forest mushrooms, or Cultivated mushrooms
Lemon juice
2 pk Enoki mushrooms (3 1/2−oz packages)
3/4 lb Chinese pea pods
2 bn Green onions
2 bn Spinach
8 oz Canned water chestnuts drained and sliced
8 oz Canned bamboo shoots drained and sliced
4 cn Chicken broth (13 3/4−oz cans)
Sweet−and−sour sauce
Soy sauce
Prepared hot Chinese mustard
1/4 lb Fine egg noodles; cooked
Cilantro or chives; chopped (optional)

 It is not necessary to use all ingredients listed here as long as you offer
an interesting blend of meats, fish and vegetables. Other meats and
vegetables can be substituted, if desired.
 Place beef, chicken and fish in freezer and chill until firm to touch but
not frozen. Slice beef and chicken in strips 1/4−inch thick and about 2
inches long. Cut fish into 3/4−inch cubes. Shell and devein shrimp. Chop
cabbage into bite−size chunks. Clean mushrooms. If using forest mushrooms,
remove and discard stems. Slice mushrooms and sprinkle with lemon juice. Cut
off and discard root portion of enoki mushrooms and separate clusters as much
as possible. Wash, trim ends and string pea pods. Clean green onions and cut
in halves lengthwise, including green portion. Cut into 2−inch lengths. Clean
spinach and discard thick stems. To serve, arrange beef, chicken, fish,
shrimp, cabbage, forest mushrooms, enoki mushrooms, snow peas, green onions,
spinach leaves, water chestnuts and bamboo shoots in individual rows on large
platters or serving plates. Bring broth to boil. Place heating unit under
Chinese hot pot and pour boiling broth into hot−pot bowl. Using Chinese wire
ladle and chopsticks or fondue forks, each person places whatever ingredients
are desired into hot broth to poach. When cooked (this will take only a few
moments), ingredients are then dipped into sweet−and−sour sauce, soy sauce or
hot

Chinese Fire Pot                                                            13
                                   A Taste Of China


mustard as desired, and eaten with noodles, adding cilantro, if desired.




Chinese Fire Pot                                                           14
Chinese Mustard
1/4 cup Boiling water
1/4 cup Dry English mustard
1/2 teaspoon Salt
2 teaspoons Salad oil

Stir boiling water into dry English mustard. Add salt and salad oil. For
yellower color, add a little turmeric.




Chinese Mustard                                                            15
Chinese Noodles in Peanut−Sesame Sauce
1 lb. Chinese−style noodles (or any spaghetti/fettuccini−type pasta)
2 Tbsp. dark sesame oil

 DRESSING:
6 Tbsp. peanut butter
1/4 cup water
3 Tbsp. light soy sauce
6 Tbsp. dark soy sauce
6 Tbsp. tahini (sesame paste)
1/2 cup dark sesame oil
2 Tbsp. sherry
4 tsp. rice wine vinegar
1/4 cup honey
4 medium cloves garlic, minced
2 tsp. minced fresh ginger
2−3 Tbsp. hot pepper oil (or amount to your own liking)
1/2 cup hot water

  Homemade hot pepper oil:
 1/4 cup hot red pepper flakes
 1 cup oil

 Combine hot red pepper flakes and oil in a saucepan over medium heat.
Bring to boil, and turn off heat immediately. Let cool. Strain in small glass
container that can be sealed. Refrigerate.

 GARNISH: (all are optional, depending on your taste)
1 carrot, peeled
1/2 firm medium cucumber, peeled, seeded, and julienned
1/2 cup roasted peanuts, coarsely chopped
2 green onions, thinly sliced

1. Cook noodles in a large pot of boiling water over medium heat. Cook
 until barely tender and still firm.
2. Drain immediately and rinse with cold water until cold. Drain well and
 toss noodles with (2 Tbsp) dark sesame oil so they don't stick together.
3. FOR DRESSING: combine all ingredients except hot water in a blender
 and blend until smooth.
4. Thin with hot water to consistency of whipping cream.
5. For garnish, peel flesh of carrot in short shavings about 4" long.
6. Place in ice water for 30 minutes to curl.
Chinese Noodles in Peanut−Sesame Sauce                                          16
                                   A Taste Of China


7. Just before serving, toss noodles with sauce. Garnish with cucumber,
 peanuts, green onion, and carrot curls. Serve cold or at room
 temperature.




Chinese Noodles in Peanut−Sesame Sauce                                    17
Chinese Potato Salad
5−6 medium potatoes (about 2 1/2 pounds)
4 slices bacon, well−cooked and crumbled
3/4 cup chopped bok choy
1 red pepper, diced
1/2 cup chopped green onion
1/4 cup chopped cilantro

      Sauce
1 1/3 cup mayonnaise
1 tsp sugar
1 tbs soy sauce
1−2 tsp sesame oil
1/8−1/4 tsp hot mustard powder
1/8 tsp salt

Boil the potatoes until cooked but still firm. Cut into potato
salad−sized chunks. Mix the ingredients for the sauce together,
using more or less sesame oil and hot mustard according to taste
(the more the better, up to a point...). Put all solid ingredients
together in a large bowl, then add the sauce. Mix and serve.




Chinese Potato Salad                                                 18
Chicken Chow Mein
   12 ounces noodles
   8 ounces skinless, boneless chicken breasts
   3 tablespoons soy sauce
   1 tablespoon rice wine or dry sherry
   1 tablespoon dark sesame oil
   4 tablespoons vegetable oil
   2 garlic cloves, finely chopped
   2 ounces snow peas, ends removed
   4 ounces bean sprouts
   2 ounces ham, finely shredded
   4 scallions, finely chopped
   saIt and freshly ground black pepper

1. Cook the noodles in a saucepan of boiling water until tender. Drain, rinse
 under cold water, and drain well.
2. Slice the chicken into fine, 2−inch shreds. Place in a bowl. Add 2
 teaspoons of the soy sauce, the rice wine or sherry and sesame oil.
3. Heat half the vegetable oil in a wok or large frying pan over a high heat.
 When the oil starts smoking, add the chicken mixture. Stir−fry for about 2
 minutes, then transfer the chicken to a plate, and keep it hot.
4. Wipe the wok clean, and heat the remaining oil. Stir in the garlic, snow
 peas, bean sprouts and ham, stir− fry for another minute or so, and add
 the noodles.
5. Continue to stir−fry until the noodles are heated through. Add the
 remaining soy sauce to taste, and season with salt and pepper. Return
 the chicken and any juices to the noodle mixture, add the scallions, and
 give the mixture a final stir. Serve at once.




Chicken Chow Mein                                                               19
Chicken Corn Soup
2 pints chicken stock
8 oz can creamed sweetcorn
1/2 teaspoon salt
pinch of MSG
2 tbpns cornflour mix with 4 tbspns of cold water
2 spring onions, finely chopped
2 egg whites
2 tbpns milk
2 oz chopped ham

1. Put the stock in a pan and bring to a boil. Add the creamed corn, salt,
 MSG, and the cornflour blended with the water. Stir until the soup
 thickens and comes back to the boil. Sprinkle on the spring onions,
 then turn off the heat.
2. Beat egg whites and milk. Pour into the soup in a thin stream. While
 wisking constantly.
3. Sprinkle chopped ham over soup. Serve.




Chicken Corn Soup                                                            20
Chicken with Mangoes
1 cup all−purpose flour
1 3/4 cups water
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
3 whole chicken breasts
1 piece fresh ginger root (2x1 inches)
8 green onions
1 can (15 ounces) mangoes
3 cups vegetable oil
3 tablespoons white vinegar
3 tablespoons dry sherry
4 teaspoons soy sauce
2 teaspoons sugar
2 teaspoons corn−starch
2 teaspoons instant chicken bouillon granules
1 teaspoon sesame oil

1. Combine flour, 1 cup of the water, the salt and baking powder in a medium
 size bowl. Beat with whisk until blended. Let stand 15 minutes.
2. Cut skinless and boneless chicken into 1/4 inch wide strips. Mix them into
 flour mixture.
3. Cut ginger into wafer−thin slices. Cut onions into 1/2 inch pieces. Drain
 mangoes and cut into 1/2 inch wide strips.
4. Heat vegetable oil in wok over high heat until it reaches 375F. Add chicken
 one strip at a time. Cook until golden, about 3 to 5 minutes.
5. Leave about 1 tablespoon oil in the wok. Reduce heat to medium. Add ginger
 to oil in wok. Stir−fry until ginger is light brown.
6. Combine remaining 3/4 cup water, the vinegar, sherry, soy sauce, sugar,
 cornstarch, bouillon and sesame oil. Carefully add to ginger all at once.
 Cook and stir until mixture boils. Add onions. Reduce heat and simmer
 3 minutes.
7. Mix chicken and mangoes into soy sauce mixture. Cook and stir 2 minutes.
 Serve immediately.




Chicken with Mangoes                                                             21
Chicken Stock
1 3−1/2 pound stewing chicken
2 slices fresh ginger root, about 1/2 inch thick
2 green onions, quartered

 Place the chicken in a stew pot and cover with water. Add the ginger and
green onions. Bring the water to a boil and skim surface of scum and foam.
Cover pot, reduce heat, and simmer chicken for about 2 hours. Strain broth.
Use chicken in other recipes.




Chicken Stock                                                                 22
Chicken Velvet
2 chicken breasts, boned and skinned
1 1/2 cups cold chicken stock
1 1/2 teaspoons oil
2 tablespoons cornstarch
3 egg whites, beaten slightly stiff
4 cups oil for deep frying
2 ounces pea pods (snow peas), strings removed
1 tablespoon cornstarch, dissolved in 2 tablespoons water
2 tablespoons (cooked) Virginia ham, minced

1. Chop chicken very fine or grind in blender. Soak in 1/2 cup of cold
 stock.
2. Add 1 teaspoon of salt and 1 tablespoon of cornstarch to chicken.
 Mix well.
3. Fold beaten egg whites into chicken mixture. Mix 1 tablespoon
 cornstarch into chicken mixture, folding lightly.
4. Heat oil and deep fry chicken mixture. Stir quickly with chopsticks in
 order to separate. Remove to plate. Drain oil.
5. Reheat 2 tablespoons of oil in wok. Over moderately high heat, stir
 fry pea pods 30 seconds. Remove and set aside.
6. Reheat 2 tablespoons oil in wok. Add 1 cup stock. Season with 1/2
 teaspoon salt. Put in chicken. Bring to boil. Thicken with dissolved
 cornstarch.
7. Serve on platter. Trim with pea pods. Garnish with minced ham on
 top.




Chicken Velvet                                                              23
Crab Ragoon
1 or 2 packages (8 ounces) Neufchatel cheese, softened (or cream cheese).
Amount based on how "cheesy" you prefer.
1 can (6 ounces) crab meat, drained and flaked
2 green onions including tops, thinly sliced
1 clove garlic, minced
2 teaspoons Worcestershire sauce
1/2 teaspoon lite soy sauce
1 package (48 count) won ton skins
 vegetable spray coating

1. Filling: In medium bowl, combine all ingredients except won ton skins
 and spray coating; mix until well blended.
2. To prevent won ton skins from drying out, prepare one or two rangoon
 at a time. Place 1 teaspoon filling in center of each won ton skin.
 Moisten edges with water; fold in half to form triangle, pressing edges
 to seal. Pull bottom corners down and overlap slightly; moisten one
 corner and press to seal. Lightly spray baking sheet with vegetable
 coating.
3. Arrange rangoon on sheet and lightly spray to coat. Bake in 425
 Fahrenheit degree oven for 12 to 15 minutes, or until golden brown.
 Serve hot with sweet−sour sauce or mustard sauce.




Crab Ragoon                                                                 24
Crisp Skin Chicken
1 chicken (2 1/2 lb)
1 tblsp vinegar
2 tblsp soy sauce
2 tblsp honey
1 tblsp sherry
1 tsp molasses (treacle)
2 tblsp all−purpose flour
1 tsp salt
peanut oil for deep frying

 Put the chicken in a large saucepan and add boiling water to come
halfway up the sides of the chicken. Cover tightly and simmer until just
tender, about 45 minutes to 1 hour. Drain, rinse under cold water and
dry with paper towels..
 Mix together the vinegar, soy sauce, honey, sherry and treacle
(molasses). Brush this all over the chicken and then hang the chicken in
an airy place to dry, for about 30 minutes. Brush with the remaining soy
sauce mixture again and hang for 20−30 minutes more. Mix the flour and salt
together and rub well into the chicken skin. Fry in deep hot peanut oil
until golden and crisp. Drain well on absorbent paper towels.

Chop the chicken into 8 pieces and serve warm with the following dips:

Cinnamon Dip:
1 tblsp ground cinnamon
1/2 tsp ground ginger
1/4 tsp freshly ground black pepper
1/4 tsp salt

Mix together, place in a small saucepan and heat until very hot,
stirring constantly.

Pepper and Salt Dip:
1 tblsp salt
1/2 tblsp freshly ground black pepper

Mix together, place in a small saucepan and heat, stirring constantly,
until the salt begins to brown.

Hoi Sin Sauce


Crisp Skin Chicken                                                            25
                                  A Taste Of China


Guests dip the pieces of chicken into the dips which are served
separately in small bowls.




Crisp Skin Chicken                                                26
Double Cooked Pork
1 1b. fresh boneless pork or fresh, uncured ham
3 oz. scallions or garlic shoots
1 tablespoon vegetable oil
2 tablespoon soybean paste
1 tablespoon sweet bean sauce
1/4 cup meat stock

1. Wash the pork, drop it into boiling water to cover, and boil for 8
 minutes.
2. Remove, drain, and cut into slices about 2 inches long by 1 ½ inches
 wide and ¼ inch thick (7 cm by 4 cm by 16mm). Set aside.
3. Cut the scallions on a slant into 1 inch (3cm) pieces. Set aside.
4. Heat the oil in a wok to very hot 356F, or until smoke rises on
 the surface.
5. Add the pork slices, soybean paste, sweet bean sauce, scallions or
 garlic shoots, and stock.
6. Stir−fry for 5 minutes, or until the scallions are tender and the soybean
 paste loses its raw taste.
7. Remove and serve.




Double Cooked Pork                                                             27
Duck with Almonds
1 lb duck meat
2 tblsp oil
1 tsp salt
2 tblsp soy sauce
2 sticks celery
2 oz fresh mushrooms
4 oz frozen peas
1 cups stock
2 tsp cornstarch
3 oz split, toasted almonds

 Cut the duck meat into paper thin slices. Heat the oil, add the salt and
duck and fry for about 5 minutes or until the meat is tender. Add the
soy sauce and mix well.
 Wash and chop the celery; wash and thinly slice the mushrooms; add both
to the pan with the peas, mix well and cook for 1 minute. Add the stock,
bring to the boil and simmer for 5 minutes.
 Mix the cornstarch to a smooth paste with a little cold water, stir into
the pan, bring to the boil, stirring all the time until slightly
thickened. Add the almonds and serve.




Duck with Almonds                                                           28
Duck Sauce
First:
1 Pound Plums halved and pitted
1 Pound Apricots halved and pitted
1 1/4 Cups Cider vinegar
3/4 Cup Water

Second:
1 Cup Cider vinegar
1 Cup Firmly packed brown sugar
1 Cup White sugar
1/2 cup Lemon juice

The Rest:
1/4 cup Chopped ginger
1 small Onion sliced
1 (or more) serrano −− seeded & chopped
2 small Garlic cloves sliced
4 teaspoons Salt
1 tablespoon Mustard seed (toasted)
1 Cinnamon stick

 Combine first set of ingredients and cook over moderate heat
for 5 minutes. Reduce heat and simmer uncovered for 15 minutes.
Combine second set of ingredients and boil for 10 minutes.
Combine the above three sets of ingredients and simmer for 45 minutes.
Remove cinnamon. Puree in food processor. Return to kettle and
simmer until thick. Transfer to sterilized mason jar, cap loosely
and let cool. Tighten caps and let stand in dark at least 2 weeks.
Makes 2 pints.




Duck Sauce                                                               29
Egg−Drop Soup
1 1/2 quarts chicken broth or clear soup stock
2 tbls. cornstarch, mixed in 1/4 cup cold water
2 eggs, slightly beaten with a fork
2 scallions, chopped, including green ends

 Bring soup stock to a bowl. Slowly pour in the corn starch mixture
while stirring the stock, until the stock thickens. Reduce heat
so stock just simmers. Pour in the eggs slowly while stirring
the soup. As soon as the last bit of egg is in, shut off heat at once
Serve with chopped scallions on top.




Egg−Drop Soup                                                           30
Egg Rolls
1 lb. chinese cabbage (Napa)
2 stalks celery
1/2 lb. cooked shrimp
1/2 lb. cooked pork or chicken livers
10 water chestnuts
1/3 cup bamboo shoots
1 tsp. salt
1 tsp. sugar
Liberal dash pepper
1/2 tsp. light soy sauce
1/4 tsp. sesame oil
1 beaten egg
10 egg roll skins
3 cups oil

PREPARATION: Boil cabbage and celery until very tender. Drain and squeeze
out excess water. Shred very fine and set aside to
drain further. Parboil shrimp and fry or bake pork. Mince both. Shred
water chestnuts and bamboo shoots. Mix all ingredients but egg together.
Beat egg. Wrap filling in egg roll skins and seal with egg.

COOKING: Heat oil in wok or deep fat fryer to 375 degrees and drop in egg
rolls. When skin turns light golden brown, remove from oil and drain. (At
this point restaurants refrigerate them and finish the cooking process as
needed.) When cool, drop again into hot oil and fry until golden brown.
 Makes 10.

 The two−stage deep frying method is actually a professional Chinese chefs'
secret. It assures that the inside will be moist and not overcooked (as
anything overcooked becomes dry) and the outside will be crisp.




Egg Rolls                                                                     31
Empress Chicken Wings
1 1/2 pounds Chicken Wings
3 tablespoons Soy Sauce
1 tablespoon Dry Sherry
1 tablespoon Minced Fresh Ginger Root
1 Clove Garlic, Minced
2 tablespoons Vegetable Oil
1/3 cup Cornstarch
2/3 cup Water
2 Green Onions And Tops, Cut Into Thin Slices
1 teaspoon Slivered Fresh Ginger Root

 Disjoint the chicken wings; discard tips (or save for stock). Combine soy
sauce, sherry, minced ginger and garlic in a large bowl; stir in chicken.
Cover and refrigerate for 1 hour, stirring occasionally. Remove chicken;
reserve marinade. Heat oil in large skillet over medium heat. Lightly coat
chicken pieces with cornstarch; add to skillet and brown slowly on all sides.
Remove chicken; drain off fat. Stir water and reserved marinade into same
skillet. Add chicken; sprinkle green onions and slivered ginger evenly over
chicken. Cover and simmer for 5 minutes, or until chicken is tender.




Empress Chicken Wings                                                           32
Foo Yung
6 eggs, beaten well
1 cup shredded cooked meat (roast pork, shrimp, almost any!)
2 cups fresh bean sprouts (or 1 can)
2 scallions, chopped, including the green ends
1 medium onion, shredded
1 teaspoon sugar
1/8 teaspoon ground pepper
1 teaspoon MSG (optional)
2 tablespoons soy sauce
1/2 cup chicken stock or water
Vegetable oil for frying

 Make gravy if desired (recipe follows). Preheat oven to 200F. Line
a platter with several thicknesses of paper towel. Mix all ingredients
except the vegetable oil together in a mixing bowl.
Heat a frying pan hot and dry. Put in vegetable oil to a depth of
about 1/2 inch. Keep oil at this level by adding more, as some is
absorbed in cooking. Bring oil temperature to medium. Stir up the
omelet mixture each time before you take a scoopful of it out, in
order to have the proper ratio of liquid and solid ingredients in each.
 With a ladle or soup scoop, take a scoop of the egg mixture and gently
put into the frying pan. When the first omelet has stiffened, gently
move it over to make room for the next. The number of omelets you
can make at once depends on the size of your frying pan. When one
side of the omelet has turned golden brown, turn over gently with
pancake turner to fry the other side. When done, transfer from
frying pan onto paper−lined platter. Keep warm in oven until all
the omelets can be served together. Serve with or without gravy.

 Gravy:
  1 1/2 cups chicken stock
  1 tablespoon cornstarch
  2 tablespoons soy sauce
  1 teaspoon MSG (optional)
  1/8 teaspoon ground pepper
  Pinch of salt

 Mix all the ingredients together in a saucepan. Bring to a boil
slowly with frequent stirring. When gravy has thickened, turn heat
to very low to keep it warm until ready to use.

Foo Yung                                                                  33
Fortune Cookies
8 oz. All−purpose flour
2 Tbl. Cornstarch
4 oz. Sugar
1/2 teas. Salt
4 oz. Vegetable oil
4 oz. Egg whites
1 Tbl. Water
2 teas. Vanilla extract.

1. In a deep bowl, mix the following ingredients: 8 oz. Flour, 2 tablespoons
 corn starch, 4 oz sugar and 1/2 teaspoon salt, blend in 4 oz. oil, 4 oz. Egg
 whites, 1 tablespoon water and 2 teaspoons vanilla extract, and beat until
 smooth consistency.
2. Write your own "Fortune" on a piece of paper 2 1/2" by 1/2". Prepared
 oven to 300F.
3. Scoop a tablespoon of cookie batter and spread evenly into a 4" circle
 on a well greased baking sheet.
4. Bake cookie for about 14 minutes or until lightly golden brown. Remove
 one cookie at a time from the oven.
5. You have about 15 seconds working time before the cookie hardens.
 Place the "Fortune" in the middle of the cookie.
6. Shape the cookie by folding it in half and grasp both ends. Place the
 finished cookie in a muffin pan with the ends down to hold its unique shape.




Fortune Cookies                                                                 34
Four Treasure Soup
1 can (8 Oz.) Sliced Water Chestnuts Drained
1/2 cup Julienned Carrot Strips
4 cans (14 Oz.) Chicken Broth
1/4 pound Ground Chicken or Turkey
1 teaspoon Garlic Powder
1/4 cup Dry Sherry
1/2 cup Chopped Green Onions
1 Pkg. Frozen Chinese Pea Pods
2 teaspoon Soy Sauce
1 t. Flour
1 teaspoon Chinese Hot Mustard

 Mince Half Of The Water Chestnuts & Combine With Chicken, 2 t. Onions, Soy
Sauce, Mustard & Flour. Reserve Remaining Water Chestnuts & Onions. in A
Large Saucepan Mix Broth, Sherry & Garlic Powder; Boil. Drop Chicken Mixture
By Teaspoonfuls Into Broth. Add Carrots & Simmer 3 To 4 Min. Until Meatballs
Are Cooked. Add Remaining Water Chestnuts, Green Onions & Pea Pods. Heat
Through & Serve Immediately.




Four Treasure Soup                                                             35
Fried Dumplings
8 oz ground pork (a)
2 scallion chopped (optional) (b)
20 PC dumpling skin
  (Available at any
   Chinese market or
   major American market.
   Look for oriental section).

1. Mix (a,b) with 1 t soy sauce, 1/2 t salt, 1 t cooking wine, 1 t cooking oil.
2. Place about 1 to 1−1/2 T of the filing in the center of a wrapper.
 Fold the wrapper in half and pinch the edges together at the center of the
 round, leaving the two ends open.
3. With your fingers, make about 3 to 4 pleats on each side of the opening.
4. Pinch all along edges to seal.

                  Fried Dumplings

1. Using very little oil, just enough to wet the surface of the wok.
2. Place the dumplings one by one into the wok and heat about 2 min.
 Then add water to the level about 1/3 the height of the dumplings. Cover
 up the wok and simmer with medium heat for 3 min.
3. Remove the water.
4. Add 2 T of oil into a pan and fry the dumplings until the bottom hardens
 and turns golden brown in color.

                  Boiled Dumplings

1. Put dumplings into a pot of boiled water. Keep heating it until the
 dumplings afloat. Remove dumplings and serve.
2. Mix soy sauce, sesame oil or whatever sauce each individual prefers.
 Dip the dumplings in it when served.




Fried Dumplings                                                                   36
Fried Lettuce
1 large lettuce
1 tblsp oil
2 cloves garlic
pinch of salt
1 tsp Vesop (this is a substitute for soy sauce)

 Wash and trim the lettuce and shake off excess moisture. Cut into four.
Heat the oil and fry the lettuce for 1 minute. Add the crushed garlic,
salt and Vesop; mix well and cook for another minute.




Fried Lettuce                                                              37
Fried Rice
2 eggs
1 teaspoon MSG (optional)
1/8 teaspoon groung white pepper
1/4 cup soy sauce
4 cups cooked rice
4 scallions, chopped, including green ends
2 cups diced cooked pork, ham, chicken, shrimp, or any meat
1 slice ginger, minced
1 clove garlic, minced
1/4 cup sliced mushrooms (optional)
1/4 cup vegetable oil

 Put first four ingredients in a mixing bowl and stir slightly;
the eggs should not be well beaten.
Heat wok or pan hot and dry. Add the oil. Brown the garlic and
ginger slightly, then add the rice. Cook for 2−3 minutes, stirring
to break up lumps and coat with oil. Add the rest of the ingredients
except the egg mixture. Fry and stir constantly until thoroughly
mixed. Add the egg mixture while stirring the rice so it will cover
as much of the ingredients in the pan as possible. Cook about
2 minutes, stirring constantly. Serve while hot.




Fried Rice                                                             38
Fried Won Tons
1 lb. Won ton skins
1/2 lb. Fresh ground pork
1/2 lb. Fresh prawns
4 Dried mushrooms, soaked for 2 hours
8 Water chestnuts, finely chopped
2 Stalks green onions, finely chopped
2 small Eggs, beaten
1/4 ts Pepper
1 1/2 ts Salt

 Yield: About 60 to 70.

 Shell and devein prawns. Mince fine. Stem mushrooms and mince caps.
Mix with prawns, pork, water chestnuts, green onions, half of the
beaten eggs and all of the seasonings.

  WRAPPING:
 Place won ton squares on working surface so corners face up, down,
left and right. Place 1 teaspoon filling in the center of each skin.

 Dip a little of the beaten egg onto the bottom corner, bring top
corner to meet bottom corner. Press to seal. Moisten left corner
and bring right corner to meet it. Press to seal. This should give
you a little bundle that looks kind of like a nurses hat.

 FRYING:
Heat 4 cups oil in wok. Fry wrapped won ton until golden (about 2
minutes). Turn over once. Drain and serve hot.




Fried Won Tons                                                         39
Garlic Chicken
4 boneless, skinless chicken breast halves (about 1 lb.)
1 egg white
1 Tablespoon cornstarch
1 Tablespoon dry white wine or sherry
4 green onions
1 teaspoon minced gingerroot
3 teaspoons minced fresh garlic (about 6 medium cloves)
2 Tablespoons vegetable oil
Hot cooked rice

 SAUCE
1 teaspoon crushed chili paste (sambal oelek) or more to taste
2 teaspoons sugar
1 teaspoon cornstarch
2 teaspoons rice vinegar
1 Tablespoon water
2 Tablespoons dry white wine or sherry
2 Tablespoons soy sauce

   Place chicken breasts in freezer for 1 to 2 hours or until very firm
but not frozen solid. Slice crosswise into thin shreds. In small bowl,
lightly beat egg white, then mix in 1 TBS cornstach and 1 TBS wine,
stirring until cornstarch is dissolved. Add chicken and mix well to coat
all pieces. Let stand at room temperature 30 minutes.

   Meanwhile, slice green onions on the diagonal into very thin slices.
Mince gingerroot and garlic. Combine Sauce ingredients, mixing well.
Heat wok or frying pan, add oil, and stir−fry chicken until no longer pink.
Remove chicken with a slotted spoon. Add onions, ginger and garlic to
wok and stir−fry about 30 seconds, until ginger and garlic are fragrant
but not brown. Return chicken to wok, restir sauce ingredients and add
to wok. Cook, stirring constantly, until mixture is well combined, hot and
bubbly and thickens slightly. Turn off heat and splash with about 1 tsp
of dark sesame oil. Serve over rice.




Garlic Chicken                                                                40
General Tsao's Chicken
  Sauce:
1/2 cup cornstarch
1/4 cup water
1+1/2 tsp minced garlic
1+1/2 tsp minced ginger root
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup soy sauce
1/4 cup white vinegar
1/4 cup cooking wine
1+1/2 cup hot chicken broth
1 tsp monosodium glutamate (optional)
  Meat:
3 lbs deboned dark chicken meat, cut into large chunks
1/4 cup soy sauce
1 tsp white pepper
1 egg
1 cup cornstarch
Vegetable oil for deep−frying
2 cups sliced green onions
16 small dried hot peppers

  Mix 1/2 cup cornstarch with water. Add garlic, ginger, sugar, 1/2 cup
soy sauce, vinegar, wine, chicken broth and MSG (if desired). Stir until
sugar dissolves. Refrigerate until needed.
  In separate bowl, mix chicken, 1/4 cup soy sauce and white pepper.
Stir in egg. Add 1 cup cornstarch and mix until chicken pieces are
coated evenly. Add cup of vegetable oil to help separate chicken pieces.
 Divide chicken into small quantities and deep−fry at 350 degrees until
crispy. Drain on paper towels.
 Place a small amount of oil in wok and heat until wok is hot. Add onions
and peppers and stir−fry briefly. Stir sauce and add to wok.
Place chicken in sauce and cook until sauce thickens.




General Tsao's Chicken                                                      41
Gingered Chicken Wings
8 chicken wings
4 tablespoons soy sauce
1 tablespoon honey
2 tablespoons lemon juice
2 tablespoons grated fresh ginger
2 tablespoons tomato ketchup
1 tablespoon oil

1. Cut wings apart at joint.
2. Mix the remaining ingredients together and marinate the chicken in this
 mixture, covered in the fridge, for 6−8 hours or overnight.
3. Grill for about 15 minutes or until cooked through, brushing frequently
 with marinade and turning twice.




Gingered Chicken Wings                                                       42
Gingered Fruit
15 oz canned pineapple pieces
11 oz canned lychees
1 tblsp chopped glace cherries
2 tblsp chopped crystallized ginger
1 cup flaked toasted almonds

 1. Drain the syrup from the canned fruits.
 2. Lightly combine the pineapple, lychees, glace cherries and ginger in a
serving bowl. Chill well.
 3. Sprinkle the almonds on top and serve immediately.




Gingered Fruit                                                               43
Ginger Tea
2 Thin slices of fresh ginger
1 cup Boiling water
Sugar to taste

A refreshing addition to any Chinese dinner.

 Steep fresh ginger slices in boiling hot water for 10
minutes. Add approximately one teaspoon of sugar per
cup of water.




Ginger Tea                                               44
Green Onion Cakes
3 1/3 cups flour
1 1/4 cups boiling water
1/4 cup solid vegetable shortening or cooking oil
2 teaspoons sesame oil
1 cup chopped green onions
2 teaspoons salt
1/2 teaspoon white pepper
Cooking oil

 Dipping Sauce:
1/2 cup chicken broth
2 tablespoons soy sauce
2 teaspoons chopped green onion
1 teaspoon minced garlic
1 teaspoon chili sauce


1. Place flour in a bowl. Add boiling water, stirring with chopsticks or a
 fork until dough is evenly moistened. On a lightly floured board, knead
 dough until smooth and satiny, about 5 minutes. Cover and let rest for 30
 minutes.
2. Combine dipping sauce ingredients in a bowl.
3. On a lightly floured board, roll dough into a cylinder; cut into 12 equal
  portions.
4. Make each cake: Roll a portion of dough into an 8−inch circle about 1/8
 inch thick; keep remaining dough covered to prevent drying. Brush with a
 thin film of shortening. Sprinkle with a small portion of sesame oil, green
 onions, salt, and pepper. Roll dough into a cylinder and coil dough into a
 round patty; tuck end of dough underneath. Roll again to make an 8−inch
 circle about 1/8 inch thick.

  Cooking:
1. Place a wide frying pan over medium heat until hot. Add 2 tablespoons
 cooking oil, swirling to coat sides. Add cake and cook, turning once, until
 golden brown, 2 to 3 minutes on each side. Remove and drain on paper
 towels. Repeat with remaining cakes, adding more cooking oil as needed.
2. Cut cakes into wedges. Serve hot with dipping sauce.




Green Onion Cakes                                                              45
Ham and Chicken Rolls
2 Whole Chicken Breasts (skinless, boneless)
1/2 Teaspoon Salt
1/4 Teaspoon Pepper
1/4 Teaspoon Five Spice Powder
1/8 Teaspoon Garlic Powder
4 Slices of Ham (about 1 ounce each)
1 Egg Beaten
2 Tablespoons Milk
1/4 Cup All−purpose Flour
4 springroll or egg roll wrappers
3 cups vegetable Oil

1. Cut breasts in half, Remove Bones if necessary, Pound breast till very
 thin using a mallet or rolling pin.
2. Combine spices (Salt, Pepper, Five−Spice Powder, Garlic Powder) sprinkle
 1/4 teaspoon evenly over each flattened chicken breast.
3. Tightly roll up each ham piece and place in the center of each chicken
 piece. Roll the chicken piece around the ham, tucking in the ends of
 the chicken about it.
4. Combine egg and milk in a shallow dish. Coat each lightly with flour
 then dip into the egg−milk mixture. Place each piece diagonally into a
 spring roll wrapper. Roll it up securely folding the ends. Brush the end
 corner with egg mixture and a pinch to seal.
5. Heat oil in the wok over high heat until it reaches 375 degrees F.
 Fry 3 to 4 rolls at a time in the hot oil until golden and the chicken
 is completely cooked (about 5 minutes). Drain on absorbent paper.
6. Cool slightly. and cut into 1−inch slices serve on a bed of shredded
 lettuce or bock choy.




Ham and Chicken Rolls                                                         46
Hoisin Beef & Scallion Rolls
1 whole flank steak
1/2 cup soy sauce
3 cloves garlic
1/2 cup ginger −−chopped, fresh
dash black pepper
1/2 cup hoisin sauce
1 bunch scallions

In a shallow dish, mix together the soy sauce, oil, garlic, ginger, and
some pepper. Add the beef and marinate overnight in the refrigerator,
turning once. Heat the broiler. Pat the marinated meat dry and broil
the steak, about 4 inches from the heat, until rare, 5 to 6 minutes
per side. Cool completely and then slice very think on the bias, across
the grain of the meat. Trim the slices to form approximately 2 x 4 inch
strips. Brush a thin layer of hoisin sauce on each strip of beef. Lay
a small bundle of scallion julienne at one end and roll up securely.
Arrange on trays, seam side down, cover tightly with plastic wrap
(make sure the plastic is in close contact with the beef),
and refrigerate until time to serve.




Hoisin Beef & Scallion Rolls                                              47
Hot−Fried Crispy Shredded Beef
  4 eggs
  1/2 teaspoon salt
  4 oz. corn starch
  1 lb. topside of beef, cut into matchstick strips
  2 cups vegetable oil
  3 medium carrots, scraped and cut into matchstick strips
  2 spring onions, cut into 1 inch sections
  2 dry red chilies, shredded
  3 garlic cloves, crushed
  6 teaspoons sugar
  2 tablespoons soy sauce
  4 tablespoons wine vinegar

 Mix together the eggs, salt and cornflour and toss the beef in
this until well coated. Heat the oil in a wok to 350 degree F, or
until a cube of bread browns in 30 seconds, and stir−fry the beef
for 1 1/2 minutes or until crispy. remove and drain on paper towels.
 Reheat the oil and deep−fry the carrots for 1 1/2 minutes. Remove
and drain on paper towels.
 Pour off most of the oil, leaving about 1 1/2 tablespoons in the
bottom of the wok. Reheat, then add the spring onions, chilies and
garlic. Stir−fry together for about 30 seconds over the heat then
add the sugar, soy sauce and vinegar. Return the meat and carrots
to the sauce. Toss over the heat and serve.




Hot−Fried Crispy Shredded Beef                                         48
Hot Chili Oil
1/2 Cup corn oil
20 dried hot chili peppers
1/2 teaspoon Sichuan peppercorns
1 teaspoon paprika

1. Line a small, fine strainer with a paper towel and set it aside.
2. In a small, heavy saucepan heat the oil. When the oil is very hot,
 turn down the heat to very low and add the peppers. Cook, stirring,
 until peppers turn dark brown. Add the peppercorns and paprika,
 and continue to cook just until mixed.
3. Pour the oil through the strainer into a bowl. Discard the solids.
 Pour the oil into a small jar and cover with a lid.
 Store in the refrigerator.




Hot Chili Oil                                                           49
Hot and Sour Soup
2 1/2 quarts chicken stock
1 block (16 oz.) of tofu, cut into 1 1/2 inch long strips
5 shitake mushrooms, cut into thin slices
1/2 cup soy sauce
1/2 tsp. white pepper
1/2 cup white vinegar
1 1/2 cups bamboo shoot strips
2 tablespoons cornstarch dissolved in 4 tablespoons water
3 eggs. beaten
1/2 tsp. sesame oil

Combine first seven ingredients in a pot and bring to a boil.
Drizzle the cornstarch mixture into the soup, stirring to thicken.
Then drizzle beaten eggs into soup, stirring. Top with sesame oil.




Hot and Sour Soup                                                    50
Hunan Beef
2 cups broccoli florets
2 tablespoons cooking oil
2 teaspoons minced garlic
4 small dried red chilies
1 teaspoon cornstarch dissolved in 2 teaspoons water

 Marinade:
2 tablespoons soy sauce
2 teaspoons cornstarch
1 tablespoon Chinese rice wine or dry sherry
3/4 pound flank steak, thinly sliced across the grain

 Sauce:
3 tablespoons Chinese black vinegar or balsamic vinegar
1 tablespoon soy sauce
1 tablespoon Chinese rice wine or dry sherry
2 teaspoons sugar
2 teaspoons chili garlic sauce
1 teaspoon sesame oil

1. Combine marinade ingredients in a bowl. Add beef and stir to coat. Let
 stand for 10 minutes.
2. Combine sauce ingredients in a bowl.
3. Place broccoli in a large pot with 1 inch of boiling water. Boil until
 tender−crisp, 2 to 3 minutes; drain.
4. Place a wok over high heat until hot. Add oil, swirling to coat sides. Add
 garlic and chilies and cook, stirring, until fragrant, about 10 seconds. Add
 beef and stir−fry until no longer pink, 1 1/2 to 2 minutes.
5. Add broccoli and sauce to wok; bring to a boil. Add cornstarch solution
 and cook, stirring, until sauce boils and thickens.




Hunan Beef                                                                      51
Hunan Shrimp
3 to 4 cups peanut oil
1 1/2 lbs shrimp; shell, devein, leave tail portions on, wash, dry,
 refrigerate for at least 4 hours
1/2 cup onions diced into 1/4−inch pieces
2 Tbsp finely chopped fresh ginger
1 garlic clove minced

For a sauce, combine in a bowl and mix well:
1 1/2 Tbsp oyster sauce
3 tsp sugar
4 Tbsp tomato catsup
1/2 tsp salt
Pinch of white pepper
2 tsp Hunan pepper [the soaked pepper flakes at the bottom of the hot oil]
 or substitute 2 tsp. chili paste, sambal ooleck, OR 1 heaping tsp
 crushed red pepper flakes plus 1 tsp oil
1 tsp sesame oil

 Pour peanut oil into a wok and heat to 375 deg F.
 Oil−blanch the shrimp¸for 45 seconds to 1 minute, until shrimp begin to turn
pink and to curl.
 Remove; set aside.

Remove oil from wok, then replace 2 Tbsp oil.
Heat oil until white smoke appears.
Add onions, ginger, and garlic, and stir−fry until onions soften,
about 2 minutes. Add shrimp and toss together thoroughly.
Stir sauce and pour into the wok. Stir together until shrimp are well
coated. Add sesame oil, turn off heat, and stir well.
Remove from wok and serve immediately.




Hunan Shrimp                                                                    52
Kung Pao Chicken
2 tablespoons oyster sauce
1 teaspoon cornstarch
3/4 pound boneless, skinless chicken

 Sauce:
1/4 cup Chinese black vinegar or balsamic vinegar
1/4 cup chicken broth
3 tablespoons Chinese rice wine or dry sherry
2 tablespoons hoisin sauce
1 tablespoon soy sauce
2 teaspoons sesame oil
2 teaspoons chili garlic sauce
2 teaspoons sugar
2 1/2 tablespoons cooking oil
8 small dried red chilies
4 teaspoons minced garlic
2 stalks celery, diced
1/2 red bell pepper, cut into 1−inch squares
1 can (8 oz.) sliced bamboo shoots, drained
2 teaspoons cornstarch dissolved in 1 tablespoon water
1/3 cup roasted peanuts

1. Combine marinade ingredients in a bowl. Cut chicken into 1−inch pieces.
 Place chicken in marinade and stir to coat. Let stand for 10 minutes.
2. Combine sauce ingredients in a bowl.
3. Place a wok over high heat until hot. Add 2 tablespoons oil, swirling to
 coat sides. Add chilies and cook, stirring, until fragrant, about 10
 seconds. Add chicken and stir−fry for 2 minutes. Remove chicken and
 chilies from wok.
4. Add remaining 1/2 tablespoon oil to wok, swirling to coat sides. Add garlic
 and cook, stirring, until fragrant, about 10 seconds. Add celery, bell
 pepper, and bamboo shoots; stir−fry for 1 1/2 minutes.
5. Return chicken and chilies to wok; stir−fry for 1 minute. Add sauce and
 bring to a boil. Add cornstarch solution and cook, stirring, until sauce
 boils and thickens. Add peanuts and stir to coat.




Kung Pao Chicken                                                                 53
Kung Pao Beef
1 lb. Beef boneless sirloin or flank steak
1 tablespoon Vegetable oil
2 teaspoon Cornstarch
1/2 teaspoon Salt
1 dash white pepper
2 Hot green chilies
2 Green onions (with tops)
1 Red bell pepper
2 tablespoons Vegetable oil
2 tablespoons Vegetable oil
2 teaspoon Finely chopped garlic
1 teaspoon Finely chopped ginger root
2 tablespoon Brown bean sauce
1/2 cup Diced canned bamboo shoots
1 teaspoon Sugar
1/2 cup Skinless raw peanuts, roasted

 Trim fat from beef steak; cut beef into 3/4−inch
cubes. Toss beef, 1 tablespoon oil, the cornstarch,
salt and white pepper in glass or plastic bowl. Cover
and refrigerate 30 minutes.
 Cut chilies into thin slices (remove seeds and
membrane if desired). Cut onions diagonally into
1−inch pieces. Cut bell pepper into 3/4 inch squares.
 Heat 12−inch skillet or wok until very hot. Add 2
tablespoons oil; rotate skillet to coat bottom. Add
beef; stir−fry 2 minutes or until beef is brown.
Remove beef from skillet.
 Heat skillet until very hot. Add 2 tablespoons oil;
rotate skillet to coat bottom. Add chilies, garlic,
ginger root, bean sauce and bamboo shoots; stir−fry 1
minute. Add beef, bell pepper and sugar; stir−fry 1
minute. Stir in onions. Sprinkle with peanuts.




Kung Pao Beef                                           54
Lemon Chicken
3 lb chicken brests, boned
1 tablespoon sherry
1 tablespoon soy sauce
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 eggs
1/4 cup cornstarch
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
2 cups vegetable oil
1/3 cup sugar
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 cup chicken broth
1 tablespoon lemon juice
1 teaspoon salt
1 lemon
2 tablespoons vegetable oil

1. In large bowl, comine chicken with sherry, soy sauce and salt; let it
 marinate for 15 minutes.
2. In small bowl, beat eggs, cornstarch and baking powder to form batter.
 In a wok, heat 2 cups oil to 350 degrees F. Coat chicken with batter; fry
 until browned. Cut into bite size pieces.
3. Combine sugar, cornstarch, broth, lemon juice and remaining 1
 teaspoon of salt. Cut lemon into thin slices. In a wok, heat the two
 tablespoons of oil; add lemon slices and stir fry for 30 seconds. Slowly
 stir in cornstarch mixture. Stir until sauce is clear.
4. Pour sauce over chicken. Ready to serve.




Lemon Chicken                                                                55
Lion's Head
1 slice ginger
1 scallion, cut into fourths
1/2 cup water
1 pound ground pork
1 tablespoon sherry
3 tablespoons light soy sauce
1 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon cornstarch
2 tablespoons cornstarch, dissolved in 4 tablespoons water
6 tablespoons oil
1 pound bok choy (Chinese green), cut into 3 inch lengths
1/2 cup chicken stock
1/2 teaspoon sugar

1. Pound ginger and scallion with back of knife or cleaver. Put in bowl
 with water. Set aside 10 minutes.
2. Strain out scallion and ginger from water.
3. Put pork in bowl. Add scallion and ginger water, sherry, 1 tablespoon
 of soy sauce, 1/2 teaspoon of salt, and cornstarch. Mix well with hand
 in one direction.
4. Form meat mixture into 4 large balls.
5. Using your hands, light coat balls with dissolved cornstarch.
6. Heat 4 tablespoons of oil in wok. Fry balls one at a time until they are
 brown. Baste with hot oil. Remove carefully.
7. Heat 2 tablespoons of oil until smoking hot in wok. Stir−fry bok choy 2
 minutes. Add 1/2 teaspoon salt.
8. Put bok choy into heavy pot. Place meatballs on top. Add 2
 tablespoons soy sauce and stock. Cover. Simmer 1 hour.
9. Add sugar. Bring to boil 2 minutes. If the gravy is too watery, thicken
 with a little dissolved cornstarch.




Lion's Head                                                                   56
Lobster Cantonese
2 lb. Lobster tails
1 Clove garlic, minced
1 teaspoon Fermented black beans − rinsed and drained
2 tablespoon Oil
1/4 lb. Ground pork
1 1/2 cup Hot water
1 1/2 tablespoons Soy sauce
1 teaspoon MSG (optional)
2 tablespoons Cornstarch
3 tablespoons Dry sherry
1 Egg
3 tablespoons Water
Cilantro sprigs
Green onion curls
Hot cooked rice

 For the best results in preparing this attractive
Chinese dish cook the lobster pieces as quickly as
possible. The beaten egg added to the sauce makes it
richer and creamier.
 With sharp knife, pry lobster meat from shell and
slice into medallions. Mince garlic and black beans
together. Heat oil in wok or skillet and add garlic
mixture. Cook and stir a few seconds. Add pork and
cook about 10 minutes, stirring to break up meat. Add
hot water, soy sauce and MSG. Add lobster medallions
and cook 2 minutes. Mix cornstarch and sherry and stir
into sauce. Beat egg with 3 tablespoons water and
blend into sauce. Cook over low heat 30 seconds,
stirring constantly. Sauce should be creamy but not
heavy. Spoon sauce into center of platter. Arrange
medallions in sauce in decorative pattern. Garnish
with cilantro and green onion curls. For each serving,
place a few lobster medallions over rice in bowl.
Spoon sauce over lobster.




Lobster Cantonese                                        57
Lo Mein
4 cups cooked Chinese noodles (or very thin spaghetti)
 rinsed and drained
12 oz. diced cooked meat (beef, chicken, pork ... any)
1 package frozen French−style green beans, thawed
2 cups fresh bean sprouts
3 scallions, chopped
1 slice ginger, shredded
1 clove garlic, minced
1 teas. MSG (Accent)
1 teas. sugar
1/4 cup soy sauce
3/4 cup vegetable oil
1/4 teas. sesame oil
2 Tbls. sherry

 Mix together MSG, sugar, and soy sauce. Set aside.
Heat wok or pan hot and dry. Add just 3 tablespoons of the
vegetable oil and all the sesame oil. Put in ginger and garlic to
brown first, then all the other vegetables. Stir and cook for one
minute over high heat. Add the sherry. Cover and cook one
minute longer. Turn off heat. Remove vegetables, and drain;
discard these juices. Set drained vegetables aside.
Heat wok or pan dry again. Put in remainder of oil. Turn heat
to medium. Add cooked noodles and stir constantly to heat
through and to coat the noodles with oil for a couple minutes.
Add your choice of meat and reserved vegetables; mix
thoroughly. Add reserved soy sauce mixture and stir until
noodles become one even color. Serve.




Lo Mein                                                             58
Manchurian Sauce
1/2 cup soy sauce
1/2 cup vegetable stock
1/2 cup green onion −− thinly sliced
1 teaspoon fresh ginger root −− minced
1 teaspoon garlic −− minced
1/2 teaspoon wasabi (or 1/2 tsp minced jalapeno pepper)

In a medium−sized bowl, combine all the ingredients and whisk
until well blended. Regrigerate for at least 30 minutes before serving.




Manchurian Sauce                                                          59
Mandarin Chicken
1 broiler/fryer chicken, 3 to 3−1/2 pounds − cut up and skin removed
2 cups water
1 cup ketchup
1/4 cup packed brown sugar
1/4 cup low sodium soy sauce
1/4 cup frozen orange juice concentrate
2 teaspoons ground mustard
2 teaspoons salt
1 teaspoon pepper
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1 teaspoon garlic powder
3 tablespoons cornstarch
1/2 cup cold water
11 ounces mandarin oranges −− drained
1/2 cup whole pitted ripe olives
2 tablespoons chopped green pepper
hot cooked rice

 Place chicken in a large resealable plastic bag or glass dish. In a bowl,
combine water, ketchup, brown sugar, soy sauce, orange juice concentrate,
mustard, salt, pepper, ginger and garlic powder. Pour half over the chicken.
Cover chicken and remaining marinade; refrigerate for 8 hours or overnight.
Drain chicken, discarding marinade. Place chicken in a slow cooker; add
reserved marinade. Cover and cook on low for 7−8 hours. Combine cornstarch
and cold water until smooth; stir into the chicken mixture. Add oranges,
olives and green pepper. Cover and cook on high for 30−45 minutes or until
thickened. Serve over rice.




Mandarin Chicken                                                               60
Mandarin Noodles
4 dried Chinese mushrooms
1/2 pound fresh Chinese noodles
1/4 cup peanut oil
1 tablespoon hoisin sauce
1 tablespoon bean sauce
2 tablespoons rice wine or dry sherry
3 tablespoons light soy sauce
1 teaspoon sugar or honey
1/2 cup reserved mushroom soaking liquid
1 teaspoon chili paste
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1/2 red bell pepper −− in 1/2 inch cubes
1/2 8 ounce can whole bamboo shoots, cut in 1/2 in cubes
   −− rinsed and drained
2 cups bean sprouts
1 scallion −− thinly sliced

1. Soak the Chinese mushrooms in 1 1/4 cups of hot water for 30
 minutes. While they are soaking, bring 4 quarts of water to a boil and
 cook the noodles for 3 minutes. Drain and toss with 1 tablespoon of
 peanut oil; set aside.
2. Remove the mushrooms; strain and reserve 1/2 cup of the soaking
 liquid for the sauce. Trin and discard the mushroom stems; coarsely
 chop the caps and set aside.
3. Combine the ingredients for the sauce in a small bowl and stir well to
 dissolve the sugar; set aside. Dissolve the cornstarch in 2 tablespoons
 of cold water; set aside.
4. Place the wok over medium−high heat. When it begins to smoke, add
 the remaining 3 tablespoons of peanut oil, then the mushrooms, red
 pepper, bamboo shoots, and bean sprouts. Stir−fry 2 minutes.
5. Stir the sauce and add it to the wok, and continue to stir−fry until the
 mixture begins to boil, about 30 seconds.
6. Mix the dissolved cornstarch and add it to the wok. Continue to stir until
 the sauce thickens, about 1 minute. Add the noodles and toss until
 heated through, about 2 minutes.
7. Transfer to a serving platter and sprinkle with the sliced scallion. Serve
 immediately.




Mandarin Noodles                                                                61
Mandarin Pancakes
2 cups flour
3/4 cup boiling water
2 tablespoons sesame oil

1. Place flour in a bowl. Add boiling water, stirring with chopsticks or a
 fork until dough is evenly moistened. On a lightly floured board, knead
 dough until smooth and satiny, about 5 minutes. Cover and let rest for 30
 minutes.
2. On a lightly floured board, roll dough into a cylinder; cut into 16 equal
 pieces. Roll each piece into a ball, then flatten slightly into a pancake.
 Brush top of each pancake with a light coating of sesame oil.
3. Place 1 pancake on top of a second pancake, oiled sides together. With a
 rolling pin, roll to make a circle 6 inches in diameter. Stack and roll
 remaining pairs of pancakes the same way. Cover with a damp cloth to
 prevent drying.

   Cooking:
1. Place a nonstick frying pan over lm heat until hot. Add 1 pair of pancakes
 and cook, turning once, until lightly browned and bubbles appear on the
 surface, about 2 minutes on each side. Remove from pan and separate
 into 2 pancakes while still hot. Stack cooked pancakes on a plate while
 cooking remaining pairs of pancakes.
2. Serve pancakes hot. If making ahead, reheat pancakes in a microwave
oven or wrap in a clean dish towel and steam in a bamboo steamer for
5 minutes.




Mandarin Pancakes                                                               62
Ma Po
1/2 cup Vegetable broth
1/3 cup Hoisin sauce
1 tb Rice wine/dry sherry
1/3 cup Ketchup
1/2 ts Hot sauce
1 tb Sesame oil
1 tb Vegetable oil
3 ea Garlic cloves, minced
1 lb Firm tofu, cut to 1/2" cubes
2 cups Mung bean sprouts
1 tb Cornstarch mixed with 2 − tablespoons water
2 ea Green onions, slivered

 In a small bowl, combine broth, hoisin sauce, rice wine or sherry, ketchup
& hot sauce. Set aside.
 Place a wok over high heat, when hot, add vegetable oil. Add garlic & stir
for 5 seconds. Add tofu & stir fry for 2 minutes. Stir in reserved sauce &
cook 1 minute. Add bean sprouts & cook another minute. Add dissolved
cornstarch & stir till sauce thickens.
  Serve over noodles tossed in sesame oil or over steamed rice. Garnish with
onions.




Ma Po                                                                          63
Mongolian Beef
3/4 pound flank steak, thinly sliced across the grain
2 1/2 tablesspoons cooking oil
2 tablespoons minced garlic
10 small dried red chilies
10 green onions, cut into 3−inch pieces
2 tablespoons hoisin sauce
1 tablespoon soy sauce

 Marinade:
2 tablespoons dark soy sauce
2 tablespoons Chinese rice wine or dry sherry
1 teaspoon cornstarch

 Procedures:
1. Combine marinade ingredients in a bowl. Add beef and stir to coat. Let
 stand for 10 minutes.
2. Place a wok over high heat until hot. Add 2 tablespoons oil, swirling to
 coat sides. Add beef and stir−fry until no longer pink, 1 1/2 to 2 minutes.
 Remove meat from pan.
3. Add remaining 1/2 tablespoon oil to wok, swirling to coat sides. Add garlic
 and chilies; cook, stirring, until fragrant, about 10 seconds. Add green
 onions and stir−fry for 1 minute.
4. Return meat to wok and add hoisin sauce and soy sauce; cook until
 heated through.




Mongolian Beef                                                                   64
Moo Goo Gai Pan
4 chicken breast halves, skinned, boned and sliced
salt and pepper
4 cloves garlic, minced
2 cups water
1 tb cornstarch
5 tb corn oil
8 oz. fresh mushrooms, sliced
4 lb. bok choy or Chinese white cabbage, chopped
2 tb sugar
4 tb soy sauce
6 scallions, chopped

1. In a bowl, toss chicken with the salt and pepper, garlic and cornstarch
 mixture. Set aside.
2. Heat 3 tablespoons of corn oil in a wok and stir in mushrooms, bok
 choy/cabbage and sugar for 2 minutes. Cover and cook for 5 minutes.
 Remove from wok.
3. Heat remaining corn oil in wok. Stir−fry chicken for 2 minutes over high
 heat. Add soy sauce and mix well. Cover and cook for about 6 minutes,
 or until the chicken is thoroughly cooked.
4. Mix in the cooked vegetables and scallions. Stir fry together for about 1
 minute. Serve hot with rice.




Moo Goo Gai Pan                                                                65
Mu Shu Chicken
3/4 pound boned and skinned chicken breast
20 tiger lily buds
3 tablespoons tree ears

Marinade:
1 teaspoon cornstarch
1 tablespoon water
1/2 teaspoon sugar
1 tablespoon soy sauce
6 tablespoons corn oil
4 extra large eggs, well beaten
3 scallions, shredded
1 Cup shredded green cabbage
1 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon oriental sesame oil
20 Mandarin Pancakes, warmed

1. Freeze the chicken in separate pieces. Thaw until semifrozen, then shred
 fine.
2. Soak the tiger lily buds and tree ears separately in warm water in bowls
 for 30 minutes. Cut off and discard the hard ends of the lily buds, then
 cut the buds in half. Clean and wash the tree ears and cut them into small
 pieces. Discard soaking liquid. Place the shredded ingredients in separate
 mounds on a large platter near the stove.
3. In a medium bowl mix the marinade ingredients and add the chicken. Mix
 well and also place near the stove.
4. Heat a wok over medium heat until hot, then add 3 tablespoons of corn
 oil and the eggs. With a spatula, slowly push the eggs back and forth in
 the wok; as the eggs cook and coagulate, break them up into large pieces;
 they should be dry. Transfer the cooked eggs to a bowl.
5. Reheat the wok and add the remaining corn oil. Add the chicken and stir
 fry until it changes color. As you stir, use the spatula to separate the
 shredded chicken. Add the shredded tree ears, lily buds, scallions and
 cabbage, blend well, then add the salt. Continue to stir fry until the
 cabbage wilts, about 2 to 3 minutes.
6. Return the eggs to the wok and stir until well blended, breaking up the
 eggs into smaller pieres. Mix in the sesame oil, turn off the heat and
 transfer the mixture to a serving platter. Serve hot with mandarin pancakes.



Mu Shu Chicken                                                                  66
Orange Beef
1/2 Lb. Top round steak
2 Tb Sherry
2 Tb Cornstarch
2 Egg whites
6 Tb Peanut oil

SAUCE:
1 1/2 cups Beef stock
2 Tb Light soy sauce
1 Ts Sugar
1 1/2 Tb Cornstarch
1 Ts Red wine vinegar

5 Dried red chile peppers, broken into pieces
8 Thin slices of orange rind (orange part only) or more
Fresh ground black pepper to taste

Whisk together the sherry, cornstarch, and egg whites until the mixture
is foamy. Add the beef and toss to coat the pieces well. Set aside.
Cut meat into 2x2−inch pieces. Heat 4 tbs. Peanut oil in wok.
Fry quickly, just until crispy and browned, remove to wok rack to drain.
Add remaining 2 tbs. Peanut oil to wok. Add orange rind and red peppers
to hot oil in wok. Stir−fry until orange rind begins to darken and aroma
from oil becomes pleasant. Add remaining ingredients and stir until bubbly
(add more beef stock if too thick). Add fried beef and toss to coat with
sauce. Serve at once with steamed white rice.




Orange Beef                                                                  67
Peanut Sauce
1/2 cup Chunk−style peanut butter
1 1/2 tablespoons Soy sauce
1 tablespoon Water
1/2 teaspoon Sugar
2 dashes Tabasco sauce
1 Clove garlic, minced
1/2 cup Water

 Thoroughly combine the first 6 ingredients; slowly
stir in the 1/2 cup water, mixing until smooth. Makes
about 1 cup.




Peanut Sauce                                            68
Peking Duck
1. Loosen the skin from the duck by massaging it,
 pulling the skin away where possible.
2. Blanch the duck for a couple of minutes.
3. Hang it up to dry for 4 hours, then baste it with
 sherry or with honey−water 1/2 and 1/2 mixture. Hang
 it up again to dry for 4 hours.
4. Roast duck using the following times and temperatures:
  30 min. at 375F, then
  1 hour at 250F, then
  30 min at 400F

  The rationale for this I'm not sure of, but all
 recipes claim that changing the oven temperature makes
 a vast difference.

5. To serve − slice off skin and cut it into 1"x2"
 pieces. Cut meat into similar−sized pieces. Provide 2"
 scallion lengths (green and white part), hoisin sauce
 (canned or bottled), and mandarin pancakes. Each diner
 rolls a bit of meat, a bit of skin, and a scallion
 length into a pancake that has been spread with about
 a teaspoon of hoisin sauce with the scallion and eats
 with fingers




Peking Duck                                                 69
Pepper Steak
1 pound flank steak, diagonally sliced

  Marinade:
1/4 cup soy sauce
2 tablespoons dry sherry
1 teaspoon sugar
2 teaspoons cornstarch
1/4 cup water

2 tablespoons oil
4 cloves garlic chopped
2 teaspoons ginger root; peeled, grated
2 scallions chopped
2 tablespoons oil
1 large onion
2 green peppers sliced

 Marinate steak for 15 minutes or more. Add oil to hot wok.
Swirl and stir fry garlic, ginger and scallions for 30
seconds. With slotted spoon, reserving the marinade, add
half the steak and stir fry for 3 minutes. Remove and set
aside. Repeat with remaining steak. Add oil and stir fry
onion and green peppers for 2 minutes. Push vegetables to
sides of wok. Add marinade to center of wok and stir until
thickened and bubbly. Blend in vegetables, add steak and
heat thoroughly.




Pepper Steak                                                  70
Pickled Sweet and Sour Vegetables
 1 medium head of cauliflower
 2 medium green peppers
 4 carrots
 3 bunches radishes
 2 hot chili peppers
 3 quarts water for blanching

Wash all the vegetables and cut into bite size pieces.
Place the 3 quarts water in a saucepan and bring to a vigorous boil.
Add all the cut vegetables to the boiling water and turn off the heat
at once. Let vegetables stay in the water for 2 minutes. Drain off water
and spread out the vegetables to dry on a platter. When vegetables are
cooled, pack the pieces at random tightly into a glass jar or plastic
container.

In a saucepan, mix, and bring to a boil:

 2 cups sugar
 2 cups white vinegar
 1 teas. salt
 1 cup water

Remove from stove to cool. Pour marinating liquid over the vegetables until
they are completely covered. Cap the container or jar and store in
refrigerator. Let stand for at least 1 week before using.




Pickled Sweet and Sour Vegetables                                             71
Pork and Bamboo Shoots
2 lb. lean pork
1/4 cup soy sauce
1 tblsp sherry
1 tsp brown sugar
1 tsp ground ginger
1 litre water
4 oz bamboo shoots

 Cut the pork into small cubes. Mix the soy sauce, sherry, sugar and
ginger together, add to the pork, toss well and leave for 10 minutes.
 Put pork and flavourings in a large pan, add the water and bring gently
to the boil, cover and simmer for 1 hour.
 Drain bamboo shoots and shred finely, add to the pan and simmer for 10
minutes. If wished, liquid may be thickened with 1 tablespoon cornstarch.
mixed with a little cold water.




Pork and Bamboo Shoots                                                      72
Pork with Broccoli in Oyster Sauce
  1 teaspoon sugar
  1 tablespoon cornstarch
  1 teaspoon MSG (optional)
  1/4 cup oyster sauce
  1/2 cup chicken stock
  2 cups sliced lean pork (about 1 pound)
  1 bunch (about 2 pounds) fresh brocolli, sliced
  2 slices ginger, shredded
  1 clove garlic, minced
  1/4 cup vegetable oil
  1/8 teaspoon salt
  1/4 cup water

 Mix together first five ingredients and set aside.
Heat wok or pan until hot and dry. Add the oil, then the salt.
Turn heat to medium. Add the ginger and the garlic and fry until
golden brown. Turn heat to high. Add the pork and fry until outside
is lightly browned. Add the broccoli and stir−fry for 3 minutes.
Add the water, cover, and cook for 4 minutes. Pour in reserved
sauce mixture; stir while cooking until gravy thickens. Turn heat
down to low, cover, and cook for 2 minutes more. Place in covered
serving dish until ready to serve.




Pork with Broccoli in Oyster Sauce                                    73
Prawns with Peanut Sauce
24 medium Prawns, shelled & deveined
24 Chinese pea pods
24 Ripe black olives

 SAUCE:
1/4 cup Dry sherry
1/4 cup Soy sauce
1/4 cup Peanut butter
3 tablespoons Sugar
2 tablespoons Vegetable oil
4 Cloves garlic, minced

  Alternate prawns, pea pods and olives on bamboo picks.
 Combine sherry, soy sauce, peanut butter, sugar, oil
 and garlic and mix well. Grill or broil kabobs for 6
 to 10 minutes or until prawns turn pink and opaque,
 brushing prawns frequently with peanut sauce. (you
 can substitute 2 whole boned and skinned chicken
 breasts for the prawns. Cut each half breast into 6
 pieces and skewer with pea pods and olives. Grill or
 broil 10 minutes or until done.)




Prawns with Peanut Sauce                                   74
Pressed Rice Cakes
2 cups glutinous rice
3 cups water

1. Wash and drain 2 cups glutinous rice. Place in a medium pan with 3 cups
 water; bring to a boil, reduce heat, and simmer until all liquid is
 absorbed, 35 to 40 minutes.
2. Spoon hot rice into a 9−inch−square pan lined with lightly oiled foil or
 banana leaves.
3. Cover with more oiled foil or leaves and a second square pan; weight with
 large cans or other heavy objects.
4. Let stand 8 hours or overnight. Invert onto a cutting board, remove foil or
 leaves, and slice into 1 1/2−inch squares with a wet knife. Serve at room
 temperature.




Pressed Rice Cakes                                                               75
Puff Shrimp
12 large shrimp (about 1 1/2 lbs.)
1/2 teaspoon garlic juice
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon monosodium glutamate
oil for deep frying 2−3 quarts
Chinese parsley, watercress, lettuce leaves, for garnish (optional)

 Remove shells from the shrimp except for the last tail section.
With a sharp knife, cut the shrimp from the underside almost through
the back. Be careful not to sever the halves completely. Remove black
veins and rinse the shrimp well. Place on paper towels and pat dry.
Arrange shrimp on a plate or platter, with split side up. Rub a little
garlic juice on each. Sprinkle a touch of salt and monosodium glutamate
on each. Put aside.

 1 1/2 cups white flour
     ( do not use unbleached flour−it turns
        gray instead of golden brown.)
 1 tabelspoon baking powder
 1/2 teaspoon salt
 1/2 cup vegetable oil
 1 cup cold water

 Place flour, baking powder, and salt in a mixing bowl. Mix throughly.
Add oil, a little at a time, while stirring with a wooden fork or spoon
until all the ingredients form a ball and the sides of the bowl are
clean. Add water a little at a time while stirring, until the dough
becomes the consistancy of pancake batter; the thicker the batter the
thicker the crust will be on the shrimp.
 Place the shrimp and the batter conveniently near your cooking utensil.
Heat the oil in a wok, or a deep frying utensil, to 350−360 f. You can also
test the temperature of the oil by putting a drop of batter in it.
If the batter sizzles, puffs up, or floats, the oil is ready.
 Take each shrimp by the tail, and dip it into the batter. Put shrimp
directly the hot oil one at a time. As each turns a golden brown, remove
from oil with tongs and place on a paper towel to drain. Arrange on a
serving plate and garnish with parsley or watercross.(A few pieces of lettuce
under the shrimp help to make the dishes look fuller and prettier, and this
allows any excess oil to drain)
 Puff shrimp need not be served at once, because the breading will not turn

Puff Shrimp                                                                     76
                                  A Taste Of China


limp or soggy. Keep them in a preheated 180 oven and the shrimp will still
be hot and crisp for half an hour or longer.
    No dip or gravy is required.




Puff Shrimp                                                                  77
Red−Cooked Eggs
6 Eggs
1/4 cup Brown sugar
1/2 cup Dark soy sauce
1/2 cup Chicken broth
1 teaspoon Sesame oil
Hoisin sauce
Oyster sauce

 In a pot, cover the eggs with cold water; bring to a boil, then simmer 15
minutes. Remove from heat, cool the eggs under cold running water, and shell
them. In a pan, combine the brown sugar, soy sauce, chicken broth, and sesame
oil. Heat the mixture, stirring to dissolve the brown sugar. Add the eggs.
Simmer, covered for 1 hour. The liquid should cover the eggs, but if it does
not, baste frequently. Turn off the heat and let the eggs stand in the liquid
for another hour, turning them from time to time, to ensure even coloring.
Serve cut into halves or quarters, with dipping sauce. Makes 6 to 8 appetizer
servings.
 DIPPING SAUCE: In bowl, combine equal parts of the hoisin sauce and oyster
sauce.




Red−Cooked Eggs                                                                 78
Rumaki
1 lb. Chicken Livers
8 oz. Water Chestnuts; Drained
12 each Bacon Strips
1/4 cup Soy Sauce
1/2 teaspoon Ginger; Powdered
1/2 teaspoon Chinese 5−Spice Powder or 1/2 teaspoon Curry Powder

 Cut the chicken livers in half or into large chunks. Cut the largest
chestnuts in half. Cut the bacon strips in half, crosswise. Wrap a piece of
bacon around pieces of liver and chestnuts, securing the ends with a
toothpick. Place in a shallow pie plate as you make them. Combine the soy
sauce with spices and pour over the rumaki; refrigerate about 1/2 hour before
serving. Preheat the grill or broiler and broil the rumaki until the bacon is
crisp, about 20 minutes, turning to brown on all sides.
Serve hot.




Rumaki                                                                          79
Sesame Chicken
1 pound boneless chicken (or pork or steak)
2 tablespoons sesame seeds
1 tablespoon sesame oil
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
4 ounces small mushrooms, quartered
1 large green bell pepper, seeded and cut into strips
4 scallions, chopped diagonally
 boiled rice, to serve

    Marinade:
2 teaspoons cornstarch
2 tablespoons Chinese rice wine or dry sherry
1 tablespoon lemon juice
1 tablespoon soy sauce
few drops of Tabasco sauce
1−inch piece fresh ginger, grated
1 garlic clove, crushed

1. Trim the meat and cut into thin strips about 1/2 x 2 inch.
2. Make the marinade. In a bowl, blend the cornstarch with the rice wine or
 dry sherry, then stir in the lemon juice, soy sauce, Tabasco sauce, ginger
 and garlic. Stir in the strips, cover and leave in a cool place for 3−4 hours.
3. Place the sesame seeds in a wok or large frying pan and dry−fry over
 moderate heat, shaking the pan, until the seeds are golden. Set aside.
4. Heat the sesame and vegetable oils in the wok or frying pan. Drain the
 meat, reserving the marinade, and stir− fry a few pieces at a time until
 browned. Remove with a slotted spoon.
5. Add the mushrooms and green pepper and stir−fry for 2−3 minutes. Add
 the scallions and 1 minute more.
6. Return the meat to the wok or frying pan, together with the reserved
 marinade, and stir over a moderate heat for a further 2 minutes, or until
 the ingredients are evenly coated with glaze. Sprinkle the sesame seeds
 on top and serve immediately with boiled rice.




Sesame Chicken                                                                    80
Sesame Noodles
1/2 lb. Chinese noodles; or 1/2 lb. Linguine
2 teaspoons Sesame oil
1/2 cup Sesame paste (tehini)
1/2 cup Chicken broth
2 tablespoons Sugar
1/2 teaspoon Salt
1/2 teaspoon Freshly ground pepper
1 teaspoon Freshly grated ginger
1/2 teaspoon Freshly minced garlic
2 teaspoon Rich wine vinegar
1/2 cup Fresh bean sprouts
1/4 cup Finely minced cucumber
1 tablespoon Chopped chives

 Cook noodles until al dente. Rinse in cold water,
drain well, and toss with sesame oil. In another bowl,
mix sesame paste, chicken broth, sugar, salt, pepper,
ginger, garlic, and vinegar using a wire whisk. Add
noodles (once cool) and bean sprouts to above mixture
and blend well. Taste. Adjust seasoning if desired.
Place noodles in glass bowl, cover with plastic wrap,
and refrigerate for two hours. Remove from
refrigerator, divide onto small plates, top with
cucumber and chives. Makes four small servings.




Sesame Noodles                                           81
Shanghai Shrimp
2 1/2 pounds medium−size raw shrimp, with shells on
4 tablespoons vegetable oil
4 thin slices of fresh ginger
3 scallions, Cut into quarters
2 tablespoons dry sherry
4 tablespoons dark soy sauce
3 tablespoons sugar
2 teaspoons red wine vinegar

1. Remove the legs of the shrimp with scissors. Make an opening in the back
 of each shrimp and devein, leaving the shell and tail on.
2. Heat the oil in a pan or wok. Stir−fry the ginger and scallions over low
 heat for 30 seconds, until there is an aroma. Add the shrimp and stir−fry
 for 1 minute over high heat. Add the remaining ingredients and stir−fry
 until the sauce is glazed, about 2 minutes.
 Serve hot or at room temperature.




Shanghai Shrimp                                                               82
Shrimp with Lobster Sauce
1 lb. Jumbo shrimp (21−25 per−pound)
1 tb. Fermented black beans
2 Garlic cloves, minced
1 Quarter−sized slice fresh−ginger, peeled, minced
1 tablespoon rice wine, or dry sherry
2 tablespoon Peanut or corn oil
1/2 teaspoon Salt
6 oz. Ground pork
1 small Onion, cut into 1−inch cubes
1 Bell pepper, cut into 1−inch cubes
1/2 teaspoon Sugar
Big pinch white pepper
1/2 tablespoon Light soy sauce
3/4 cup Chicken stock
2 teaspoon Cornstarch, blended with: 1 tb Water
1 large Egg, lightly beaten
1 Green onion, chopped
1 teaspoon sesame oil

 Shell and de−vein the shrimp. Butterfly shrimp by
slicing them down the length of the back, stopping
just above the tail. Rinse with cold water and blot dry.
 Cover the black beans with lukewarm water; let soak
for 5 minutes. Drain. Combine with the minced garlic
and ginger; gently crush into a paste. Mix in the
wine; set aside.
 Place a wok over medium−high heat. When hot, drizzle
in half of the oil. Add the shrimp and stir−fry until
they begin to curl and turn bright orange, about 1
minute. Remove to a dish and keep warm.
 Reheat wok over medium heat; add remaining tablespoon
of oil and the salt. Add the black bean paste and
saute a few seconds until it becomes aromatic.
Increase heat to medium−high. Add the pork and
stir−fry until the morsels are no longer pink, about 3
minutes.
 Add onions, peppers, sugar, white pepper and soy
sauce; toss together until the vegetables begin to
soften, about 1 minute. Add the stock and keep tossing
until it comes to a boil.

Shrimp with Lobster Sauce                                  83
                                   A Taste Of China


Stir the cornstarch mixture to recombine, then drizzle
into the center of the work, stirring constantly,
until mixture thickens, about 20 seconds.
 Turn off the heat and slowly stir in the beaten egg to
combine the mixture into a creamy sauce. return the
shrimp to sauce, add the green onions and swirl in the
sesame oil.




Shrimp with Lobster Sauce                                 84
Shrimp with Snow Peas
2/3 lb. tiger prawns

  Marinade for shrimp:
1 1/2 tsp. sherry
1/2 tsp. salt
1/2 tsp. grated ginger
1 1/2 tsp. cornstarch
1 tsp. water

  Seasoning:
1 Tb. chicken broth
3 Tb. water
1/2 tsp. cornstarch
3 Tb. oyster sauce (very important)
1 Tb. hoisin sauce

  also needed:
1/2 cup vegetable oil
1 clove garlic, pressed or minced
1/4 tsp. salt
1/2 lb. snow peas

 Shell and devein prawns. Rinse and pat dry with a paper towel. Combine
marinade in medium bowl. Add prawns and mix well. Let stand 30 mins.
Heat wok over medium heat, add oil, and stir fry garlic for 15 secs. Add
prawns and stir fry until pink. Remove from wok, and place on plate.
Add salt and snow peas to oil in wok. Stir fry 30 secs. Add seasoning
sauce and stir slightly until think and bubbly. Add cooked prawns. Stir
to coat everything with sauce. Serve hot with cooked rice.




Shrimp with Snow Peas                                                      85
Shrimp Tempura
BATTER:
  3 cups Cake flour
  2 Eggs; beaten
  2 cups Ice water

TEMPURA SAUCE:
  1 cup Soy sauce
  1/2 cup Mirin
  3 cups Water
  1 teaspoon MSG (optional)
  1 Japanese radish (daikon), grated

TEMPURA:
  1 lb. Large shrimp
  6 lg. Mushrooms; sliced
  3 slices Eggplant; cut in strips
  6 Strips celery, 3" long
  3 Carrots − cut in 3" long strips
  6 slices Sweet potato − cut in 3" long strips
  6 Green beans
  Oil for deep frying
  All−purpose flour

 Mix cake flour with eggs and ice water until batter is slightly lumpy.
Chill. To make sauce, combine soy sauce, mirin, water and MSG in saucepan
and bring to boil. Place small amount of sauce in tiny saucers with 1
teaspoon of grated radish on each. Set aside.

 To prepare tempura, shell and devein shrimp, leaving tail, intact. Flatten
slightly with sturdy whack of cleaver or flat side of heavy knife so shrimp
will not curl while cooking. Arrange shrimp, mushrooms, eggplant, celery,
carrots, sweet potatoes and green beans attractively on large tray or
platter. Heat oil in deep kettle to 350F. Beat batter. Dip shrimp into
all−purpose flour, then into chilled batter, shaking to remove excess
batter. Slip into deep fat and fry until shrimp rise to surface. While
shrimp are bobbing on surface of oil, dollop a bit more batter on top of
each shrimp and cook until batter is crisp and slightly golden. Turn once
and remove with slotted spoon or fork and drain on wire rack. Keep hot. Dip
vegetables in flour and batter and cook in same manner. Continue to cook
and drain shrimp and vegetables, a few at a time, adjusting heat during

Shrimp Tempura                                                                86
                                A Taste Of China


cooking to maintain 350 degree temperature. Keep batter cool. To serve,
place equal amount of various foods on each plate. Dip cooked vegetables
and shrimp into sauce, scooping up a bit of radish.




Shrimp Tempura                                                             87
Shrimp Toast
12 fresh uncooked large shrimp
1 egg
2 1/2 tablespoons cornstarch
1/4 teaspoon salt
Pinch pepper
3 slices sandwich bread
1 hard−cooked egg yolk
1 slice cooked ham (about 1 ounce)
1 green onion
2 cups vegetable oil

1. Remove shells from shrimp, leaving tails intact. Remove back veins
 from shrimp. Cut down back of shrimp with sharp knife. Gently press
 shrimp with fingers to flatten.
2. Beat 1 egg, cornstarch, salt and pepper in a small bowl until blended.
 Add shrimp to egg mixture and toss until shrimp are completely coated.
3. Remove crusts from bread. Cut each slice into quarter. Place one
 shrimp, cut side down, on each bread piece. Gently press shrimp to
 adhere to bread. Brush or rub small amount of egg mixture over each
 shrimp.
4. Cut egg yolk and ham into 1/2 inch pieces. Finely chop onion.
 Place one piece each of egg yolk and ham and a scant 1/4 teaspoon
 chopped onion on each shrimp.
5. Heat oil in wok over medium−high heat until it reaches 375F.
 Fry 3 or 4 shrimp−bread pieces at a time in the hot oil until golden,
 1 to 2 minutes on each side. Drain on absorbent paper.




Shrimp Toast                                                                88
Shui Mai
2 tablespoons peanut oil
1 garlic cloves
1 teaspoon ginger −− minced
1 scallion −− chopped
1 onion −− coarsely chopped
1/2 small cabbage −− coarsely chopped
2 teaspoons thin soy sauce
1/2 teaspoon sesame oil
1 teaspoon rice wine or dry sherry
1 teaspoon cornstarch dissolved in 1 tsp cold water
24 dumpling wrappers, 3 inch diameter
1/2 cup parboiled or frozen green peas
10 lettuce leaves

Place a wok over medium−high heat. When it begins to smoke, add the oil,
then the garlic, ginger, and scallion. Stir−fry 15 seconds. Add the onion
and cabbage and stir−fry 2 minutes. Add the soy sauce, sesame oil, rice wine,
and dissolved cornstarch. Stir constantly until the sauce thickens,
about 30 seconds. Remove the wok from the heat and set aside to cool.




Shui Mai                                                                        89
Silk Apples
3 Apples
2 Egg whites
2 tablespoons Flour
2 tablespoons Cornstarch
Peanut oil for deep frying
1/2 cup Sugar
1/4 cup Honey
1/3 cup Water
1 tablespoon Peanut oil

1. Peel the apples, core and cut into wedges about 1/2 inch thick.
2. Whip egg whites until frothy. Add flour and cornstarch and beat into a
 smooth batter.
3. Heat the oil to 375F. Dip each apple wedge into egg white batter,
 place in hot oil and try, a few at a time, until crisp and brown.
4. Place in a single layer on a warm service platter. Bring remaining
 ingredients to a boil in a saucepan and cook to a hard ball stage syrup;
 280 F on candy thermometer.
5. Pour over apple wedges and serve at once, accompanied by a large
 crystal bowl of water containing lots of ice cubes.

Serving: Each person picks up an apple wedge with a fork or small tongs
and dips it into the ice water to crystallize the sugar and harden the top, which
forms silk−like threads....hence the name.




Silk Apples                                                                         90
Silver and Gold Shredded Chicken
1/2 pound boned and skinned chicken breasts

Marinade:
1 large egg white
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon dry sherry
1 teaspoon oriental sesame oil
2 teaspoons cornstarch

1 tablespoon soy sauce
3 tablespoons peanut oil
1 large garlic clove, crushed slightly with the cleaver
1 pound fresh spinach, washed, drained and tough stems removed
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon sugar
1/2 cup peanut oil

1. Freeze the chicken in separate pieces. Thaw until semifrozen, then
 shred fine. Mix the chicken with the marinade ingredients and marinate
 for at least 1 hour, or as long as overnight. Divide the chicken shreds
 into two equal portions and mix the soy sauce into one portion.
2. Heat a wok over high heat until very hot and add the 3 tablespoons of
 peanut oil. Add the garlic and stir fry for a few seconds, being careful
 not to let it burn. Add the spinach and stir fry until the ingredients
 are thoroughly mixed with the oil. Add the salt and sugar. As soon as the
 spinach wilts, use a pair of tongs or chopsticks to transfer the spinach
 to the center of an oblong serving platter. Discard the garlic and any
 accumulated liquid. Wipe the wok clean with a paper towel.
3. Reheat the wok. Place the strainer over a pot near the stove. Add the
 half cup of peanut oil to the wok, heat to about 280F, and add the chicken
 portion without the soy sauce. Stir quickly to separate the pieces of
 chicken. As soon as the chicken turns white, pour the contents of the wok
 into the strainer and allow the oil to drain away. Transfer the chicken
 to one side of the spinach. Cook the chicken portion with the soy sauce
 in the same manner and arrange on the opposite side of the spinach.
 Serve hot.




Silver and Gold Shredded Chicken                                              91
Spiced Whole Lamb
3 lb. leg or shoulder of lamb
1 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon sherry
2 cloves garlic, crushed
1 oz. fresh ginger, shredded or 1 tsp ground ginger
1/3 cup oil
1 quart stock
1 tablespoon cornstarch

 Wipe the meat and rub salt into the skin. Put in a pan with cold water
to cover, bring to the boil, remove the scum, cover and simmer for 20
minutes. Drain off the liquid. Mix the soy sauce and the sherry with the
garlic and ginger and rub into the lamb, leave for 10 minutes.

 Heat the oil and fry the lamb for about 15 minutes, turning it to brown
all over. Add the stock, bring to the boil and simmer for 2 1/2 hours.

 Mix the cornstarch to a smooth paste with a little cold water. Lift the
lamb on to a hot dish; keep hot. Add cornstarch mixture to the liquid in
the pan and bring to the boil, stirring, until slightly thickened. Pour
over the lamb.




Spiced Whole Lamb                                                          92
Spicy Soy Dipping Sauce
1/4 cup vegetable stock
1/2 cup light soy sauce
1 tablespoon rice wine or dry sherry
2 tablespoons sesame oil
2 tablespoons rice vinegar
1 tablespoon sugar or honey
1 teaspoon hot oil

Combine the ingredients in a small boil. Stir to dissolve the sugar,
then cover and refrigerate until serving.




Spicy Soy Dipping Sauce                                                93
Steak Kew
1 lb Flank, skirt steak or other tender beef, cut in 1−inch squares
1 Onion, cut in 1−inch chunks
1 1/2 tablespoon Hoisin sauce
1/2 teaspoon sesame oil
1 tablespoon Soy sauce
1/4 teaspoon Pepper
1 teaspoon Cornstarch
1 Or 2 garlic cloves, minced
1 Or 2 slices ginger root, minced
1/2 lb. Snow peas, or 1 lb. Chinese or regular broccoli, or fresh
   asparagus tips
1 lb. Firm ripe tomatoes, cut in wedges
3 tablespoons Peanut oil

 Combine beef, onion, hoisin sauce, sesame oil, soy, pepper, cornstarch,
garlic and ginger. Let stand for 15 minutes. Blanch snow peas,
broccoli or asparagus for 1 to 2 minutes; drain and place on heated
platter; keep warm. If using tomatoes, have at room temperature.
Heat peanut oil in a wok or skillet and stir−fry meat and onion
mixture for 1 to 2 minutes; meat should be well seared but still pink
inside.
 Immediately pour over blanched vegetable and serve. Or place on
heated platter and surround with tomato wedges.




Steak Kew                                                                  94
Steamed Beef Dumplings
8 oz. Lean ground beef
1 1/2 tablespoons soy sauce
1 tablespoon Chopped cilantro
1 teaspoon Minced ginger root
1 teaspoon Cornstarch
1/2 teaspoon Peanut oil
20 Round wonton wrappers
Water
Scallion fans for garnish
Radish flower for garnish

In small bowl, combine beef, soy sauce, cilantro, ginger root, cornstarch
and oil. Place 10 wonton wrappers on work surface. Place 2 teaspoon
filling in center of each wonton wrapper. Moisten each wonton wrapper.
Moisten entire edge with water. Lift both sides of wrapper and pinch
together above stuffing, gathering up edges and pleating wrappers;
pinch to seal. Continue with remaining wrappers and filling.
Into each of two large skillets, bring to a boil 2 cups of water.
Reduce heat to medium; add dumplings and do not allow to touch.
Cover lightly and steam until dumplings are firm and wrappers are soft,
15 minutes. Serve immediately.
Garnish serving platter with scallion fans and radish flower.




Steamed Beef Dumplings                                                      95
Stir−Fried Beef with Pineapple
8 oz. fillet of beef
2 oz. pineapple pieces
2 oz. crushed ginger
2 fl.oz vegetable oil
1 spring onion
2 teaspoons dry sherry
  Seasoning one:
1 beaten egg white
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons of vegetable oil
2 teaspoons of cornflour
  Seasoning two:
2 tablespoons chicken stock
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon sugar
1 tablespoon light soy sauce
1/2 teaspoon cornflour

1. Partially freeze beef, cut across grain into thin slices. Cut into strips
 of 1x2 inches.
2. Mix ingredients from seasoning one into a bowl. Coat meat with
 seasoning and leave to marinate for 60 minutes.
3. Cut the pineapple into pieces, slice onion. Put all ingredients from
 Seasoning two in a bowl and mix well.
4. Heat oil in a wok, stir fry onion and ginger for 1 minute, set aside keep
 warm.
5. Add beef to wok, fry until brown, add wine, and seasoning two. Mix, simmer
 for 2 minutes, add pineapple and onion and ginger, mix and fry for 2
 minutes, until heated through.




Stir−Fried Beef with Pineapple                                                  96
String Beans In Walnut Sauce
1 lb. Fresh string beans
1/4 lb. Shelled walnuts
1/4 cup Red wine vinegar
1/4 cup Onion minced
1 cup Chicken stock
2 Garlic cloves minced
2 teaspoons Sweet paprika
3 tablespoons Cilantro freshly & finely chopped
1 1/2 teaspoons Salt
3 quarts Water

 In mill or with a mortar & pestle, pulverize the
 walnuts into a paste. Combine the stock, onions,
 garlic, paprika, vinegar, salt, walnut paste, &
 cilantro. Mix thoroughly. Trim but do not cut the
 string beans. Bring the water to boil, add the string
 beans and boil them for 10 minutes. Drain the beans
 well. Add the beans to the walnut paste mixture and
 toss until coated completely with the mixture. Serve
 at once.




String Beans In Walnut Sauce                             97
Sweet & Sour Pork, Chicken, or Shrimp
1 lb: Pork butt or boneless chicken cut into 1−inch pieces, or
    medium shrimp (shelled and devined)

MARINADE:
1 tablespoon Sherry
2 tablespoons Water
2 tablespoons soy sauce
4 teaspoons Flour
4 teaspoons Cornstarch

1 Green pepper, cut into 1/2 inch chunks
1 Onion, cut into wedges
12 Maraschino cherries
1 cup Pineapple chunks
3 cups oil for deep frying

SAUCE MIXTURE:
1/2 cup Brown sugar
1/2 cup Vinegar
1 teaspoon Salt
4 tablespoons Catsup
3/4 cup Pineapple juice
4 teaspoons Cornstarch

  Drain fruits, prepare sauce mixture. Marinate meat in
  marinade for 1/2 hour.
  Deep fry meat, a few at a time, in a wok for about 3 to 4 minutes
  until golden brown, separating pieces as they cook. Remove and drain.
  Remove oil, reserve for other deep frying.
  Add sauce mixture into wok and stir until thickened. Add green
  pepper and onions and cook for 2 minutes. Add meat and stir
  until heated through. Add fruits and stir until they're coated
  with the sauce.




Sweet & Sour Pork, Chicken, or Shrimp                                     98
Sweet and Sour Sauce
 1/3 cup White Vinegar
 1 cup Water
 2/3 cup Sugar
 dash of Salt
 dash of MSG
 dash of White Pepper
 dash of Tabasco

Cook over medium heat and add:
 1 tablespoon Cornstarch combined with
 2 tablespoons Water
 1/2 teaspoon Worcestershire Sauce
Cook until it is bubbly and thick. Remove from stove and
add 2 tablespoons ketchup.




Sweet and Sour Sauce                                       99
Sweet and Sour Tofu
1 lb. tofu
1/4 cup lemon juice
1/4 cup tamari sauce
6 tablespoons water
1/4 cup tomato paste
2 tablespoons honey
1 teaspoon ginger
4 cloves of garlic
8 scallions, minced
1 green & 1 red bell pepper, sliced in strips
1 lb. mushrooms
1 cup toasted cashews

1. Cut tofu into small cubes; set aside. Combine lemon juice, tamari,
 water, tomato paste, honey, ginger, and garlic; mix until well blended.
2. Add tofu to this marinade, stir gently, and let marinate for several hours
 (or overnight).
3. Stir−fry scallions, bell peppers, and mushrooms in 2 tsp. of oil. After
 several minutes, add tofu with all the marinade. Lower heat, continue to
 stir−fry until everything is hot and bubbly.
4. Remove from heat and stir in cashews. Serve over rice.




Sweet and Sour Tofu                                                             100
Szechuan Chicken
1 lb. boneless chicken breast, cubed
4−6 carrots, sliced into 1/4" pieces
1 can bamboo shoots
12−15 dried hot peppers
cooking oil

  Sauce:
6 tbsp. soy sauce
2−3 tbsp. cornstarch
2−3 tbsp. powdered dry ginger
3 tbsp. sherry

 Mix the ingredients for the sauce in a bowl.
 Place the peppers and 1 tbsp. of cooking oil in a wok. Brown the
peppers under medium−high heat and remove them to a plate. Add the
cubed chicken and cook until pink color disappears (2−5 min). Remove the
chicken from the wok. Add 1 tbsp. of oil to the wok, and add the
carrots. Stir−fry until carrots begin to soften. (If you prefer soft
vagetables, you can add several tablespoons of water to the carrots and
steam them for 5 min. or so). Add the bamboo shoots and stir−fry 1−2
minutes.
 Add the peppers, chicken, and the sauce to the wok. Stir over medium
heat until the sauce thickens.




Szechuan Chicken                                                           101
Szechuan Pasta Salad
2 packs Angel hair pasta
1/2 lb. Turkey
2 Red bell peppers
2 medium Carrots
1 can Water chestnuts
6 Green onions
1 cup Miniature corn on the cob
1/4 lb. Snow peas
1 bunch Cilantro
4 tablespoons Toasted sesame seeds

  DRESSING:
2 cups Mayonaise
3/4 cup Soy sauce
2 tablespoons Szechwan hot oil
1/4 cup Sesame oil
1 tablespoon Dijon mustard
2 Garlic cloves

1. Cook angel hair pasta al dente.
2. Dice turkey, bell pepper and peeled carrots.
3. Drain and slice water chestnuts.
4. Remove stems from cilantro and use the leaves only save a little for the
 garnish.
5. Chop green onions.
6. Slice the cobletts.
7. Slice the snow peas on a diagonal into thin strips.
8. Toast the sesame seeds and reserve 1 TBSP. for the garnish.
9. Toss ingredients together.
10. Combine all dressing ingredients in food processor.
11. Add to salad and toss.
12. Garnish with toasted sesame seeds and cilantro.




Szechuan Pasta Salad                                                          102
Teriyaki Beef
1 lb. skirt beef steak
1 cup teriyaki sauce
2 tablespoons soy sauce
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1 teaspoon ground black pepper
1/2 teaspoon fresh minced garlic
2 tablespoons oyster sauce
1 tablespoon black bean sauce
1/4 cup sesame oil
4 oz. onion (1/4" slices)
6 oz. broccoli florets

 Cut skirt steaks into 1" cubes and combine all above ingredients in mixing
bowl. Mix thouroughly and let marinate for at least a half hour at room temp.
Refrigerate until needed.
 When ready to cook, separate beef only from marinade (save everything else).
In a wok, heat up about a 1/4" of olive oil. Add beef and cook 3/4 done.
Add marinated vegetable (broccoli and onion). Cook until beef is done,
then add approximately 1 cup (or as much as desired) of marinade to beef
and veggies. Cook over low flame to slight boil.
Serve over rice with wonton noodles around edge of plate (or pasta bowl).




Teriyaki Beef                                                                   103
Twice−fried Shredded Beef
 3/4 lb. Beef sirloin or flank steak

MARINADE:
  2 tablespoons Dry sherry
  2 tablespoons Soy sauce
  1 teaspoon Sugar
  1 teaspoon Cornstarch
  1 small Carrot
  1 Green bell pepper
  2 Ribs celery
  1 small Onion

SAUCE:
  2 tablespoons Rice vinegar
  1 tablespoon Soy sauce
  2 teaspoons Sesame oil
  1 teaspoon Sugar
  1/2 teaspoon Chili oil
  1/2 teaspoon Cornstarch

Trim and discard fat from beef. Cut beef across the grain into 1 1/2−inch
matchstick pieces. Combine marinade ingredients in a medium−size bowl.
Add beef; stir to coat. Set aside for 30 minutes. Cut carrot, bell pepper,
and celery into 1 1/2−inch matchstick pieces. Thinly slice onion.
Set vegetables aside separately.
Combine sauce ingredients in a small bowl and set aside.
Cooking: Set wok in a ring stand and add oil to a depth of 1 1/2 to
2 inches. Place over high heat until oil reaches about 375 degrees F.
Add beef, half at a time, and deep fry for 1 minute until browned, turning
occasionally. Lift out and drain on paper towels; set aside.
Cook remaining beef.
Remove all but 2 Tablespoons oil from wok. Reheat oil over high heat until
hot. Add carrot and onion; cook, stirring constantly, for 1 minute.
Add bell pepper and celery; stir−fry for 1 more minute. Stir in sauce and
beef. Cook and toss until well mixed.




Twice−fried Shredded Beef                                                    104
Vegetable Fried Rice
1/4 cup light soy sauce
3 tablespoons rice wine or dry sherry
1/2 teaspoon salt
6 tablespoons peanut oil
2 eggs −− lightly beaten
1 carrot −− in 1/2" cubes
1 red bell pepper −− in 1/2" cubes
1/2 cup frozen peas
4 cups cold cooked rice

Combine the first three ingredients for the sauce in a small bowl.
Mix to blend well and set aside.
Place a small skillet over medium heat. When it begins to smoke, add
2 tablespoons of peanut oil and the lightly beaten eggs. Stir until the
eggs are firm but moist. Transfer the eggs from the skillet to a small
bowl and break them into small curds. Set aside.
Bring 1 quart of water to a boil in a small saucepan. Add the carrot and
boil 1 minute. Drain and rinse in cold water. Drain again and reserve.
Place a wok over medium−high heat. When it begins to smoke, add the
remaining 1/4 cup of peanut oil and the garlic. Stir briefly. Add the
carrots, celery, red pepper, and peas. Stir−fry 1 minute. Stir in the rice
and stir−fry 1 minute. Pour in the sauce and cook until the rice is heated
through, about 5 minutes, stirring frequently. Serve hot.




Vegetable Fried Rice                                                         105
Won Ton Soup
6 ounces pork, roughly chopped
8 medium shrimp, shelled and ground
1 teaspoon light brown sugar
1 tablespoon Chinese wine or dry sherry
2 tablespoon light soy sauce
1 teaspoon finely chopped scallion
1 teaspoon finely chopped fresh ginger
24 wonton wrappers
3 cups chicken stock
finely chopped scallions, to garnish.

1. In a bowl, mix the chopped pork and ground shrimp with the sugar, rice
 wine or sherry, 1 T of the soy sauce, the scallions and chopped ginger.
 Blend well and set aside for 25−30 minutes for the flavors to blend.
2. Place 1 t of the filling in the center of each wonton wrapper.
3. Wet the edges of each wonton with a little water and press them together
 with your fingers to seal, then fold each wonton over.
4. To cook, bring the stock to a rolling boil in a wok, add the wontons and
 cook for 4−5 minutes. Add the remaining soy sauce and scallions, transfer
 to individual soup bowls and serve.




Won Ton Soup                                                                  106
